adherence to this standard in a real business setting would be to make use of the technical baseline of specific methodologies developed to help engineers measure, test, and certify a system’s ability to fail safely.
canadian start-up element ai launched a new program in london to facilitate the “connection of leading ai scientists and engineers in developing nations through fellowships and visiting scholar programs8.” and in a different vein, italy’s ai white paper on ai states that the country will need resources in italian language (such as digital lexicons or annotated corpora distributed with open licenses) to develop some of the ai technologies it will need for its economic
 basic research that aims at the development of theory, models and methods for knowledge extraction and processing as well as the software and hardware architectures;
for starters, most users are not providing meaningful consent to the use of their information, as they are not in a position to understand how ai applications are using it.
3) ai development environments, whether in research or industry, must be inclusive and reﬂect the diversity of the individuals and groups of the society.
the result is a job market with a strong demand at the high and low ends, but a hollowing out of the middle.
ai technologies have the potential to revolutionize how we live, work, learn, discover, and communicate.
much of the public debate around ai in the for-pro t world focuses on the potential for labor displacement.
“will democracy survive big data and artificial intelligence?” scientific american, february 25, 2017.
while the social impact of adding ai to the mix of solutions targeting the world’s most pressing challenges is potentially very large, some ai-speci c bottlenecks will need to be overcome if even some of that potential is to be realized.
and while there are endless primers on the internet for people who want to learn to program ai, there aren’t many explanations of the ideas, and the social and ethical challenges they imply, for people who aren’t and don’t want to be software engineers or statisticians.
however, an ongoing challenge remains: how to best support democratic deliberation and conceptions of distributive justice with software and/or software engineering methods.
ethically aligned design is not a code of conduct or a professional code of ethics.
overall, personal data reflects self-determination and the inalienable right for an individual to be able to access and control the attributes of their physical, digital, and virtual identity.
as the availability of data is a prerequisite for developing ai, the german ai strategy focuses on initiatives to increase the available data and to ease the use of available data.
the development and use of ais must be carried out so as to ensure a strong environmental sustainability of the planet.
• to ensure meaningful human control, operators should be able to query a system in real-time.
regardless, if part of the mandate of a dssg program is to train students for their future careers, we should see the program not just as an opportunity to develop technical skills, but also as an opportunity to develop the organizational intelligence, best practices, and critical perspectives that will set them up for success in data-intensive careers across a range of contexts.
employees are also customers of other companies, and they have experienced streamlined digital interfaces for interacting for business purposes.
• first, to devise mechanisms of dynamic mapping of tasks and occupations at risks of automation and associated employment volumes.
• legal jurisdiction over personal privacy a/is access will need to be clarified.
ensuring that ai applications are safe and responsible for human use is an essential prerequisite for widespread deployment for social aims.
hsieh, data for social good: a case study of building an effective public- private partnership on domestic violence pre- vention.
in the sense that norms, rules, principles, or procedures are used by the system to evaluate the acceptability of differing courses of action, or as moral standards or goals to be realized.
the 99% of humans on the planet should not accept any form of control from the managing 1%.
in two contributions, differences between stakehold- ers’ interests are identified, but only one position is then pursued in the method or tool [75], or the prob- lem is delegated by proposing that the owner of the ai device chooses the position that the machine will follow [76].
using data and machine learning, businesses can turn every interaction into an opportunity to learn what people value and want.
while migrant phenomena and sea rescue opera ons are no doubt a par cularly poli cally charged environ- ment, i believe that many of these ques-  ons are relevant for other contexts of applied research too.
the emerging ethics divide.” ssrn scholarly paper, rochester, ny: social science research network, 2016.
this phenomenon was particularly pronounced during the great recession from 2007 to 2009. this pattern is consistent with a negative relationship between labour force participation and the unemployment rate.
that could lead to new markets, as well as decrease business risk.
hearing on reports of racism in the justice system of the united states submitted to the inter-american commission on human rights (2014) https://www.aclu.org/sites/default/ files/assets/141027_iachr_racial_ disparities_aclu_submission_0.pdf
data profiling, informed consent, transparency and accountability (the new eu data protection legislation effective may 2018 is an example of that).
as some types of a/is begin to display characteristics that resemble those of human actors, some governmental entities and private commentators have concluded that it
we would like to ensure that ai will be used to help humanity to the greatest extent possible in all contexts.
to preserve human dignity, policies, protections, and practices must provide all individuals the same agency and control over their digital
when we refer to our "social fabric", we usually mean the many mediating groups that bring us together and reinforce our values.
11 see for example, cédric villani, for a meaningful arti cial intelligence: towards a french and european strategy, march 2018, aiforhumanity.fr/pdfs/missionvillani_report_eng-vf.pdf; will hurd and robin kelly, rise of the machines: arti cial intelligence and its growing impact on u.s. policy, us house of representatives, subcommittee on information technology, september 2018, oversight.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/ai-white-paper.pdf; pan-canadian arti cial intelligence strategy, cifar, https://www.cifar.ca/ai/pan-canadian- arti cial-intelligence-strategy; tim dutton, “an overview of national ai strategies,” medium, june 28, 2018, medium.com/politics-ai/an-overview-of-national-ai-strategies-2a70ec6edfd.
4. principle of safety
urgently reinvent curriculums for software and ai: elementary, high-school and university programs have to develop the skills that empower students to be leaders in the coming ai tsunami – critical thinking, teamwork, coding, algorithmic understanding and math.
finally, owing to the way humans often perceive ai as “superior” in its abilities, they can over-trust it.5 these examples are not exhaustive.
that means that the model has to express conditions about the state of its understanding of a text after reading however many letters, and how each successive next letter might affect its interpretation of meaning.
kara swisher, editor at largefor the technology news website recode and producer of the recode decode podcast and code conference, is a contributing opinion developing ai for business with five core principles
to come up with the risk profiles, we tagged individual use cases from low to high for each of the five categories: the risk of bias; the risk of privacy violation; the risk of unsafe use of
a computer that dispenses expert radiology advice is just one example of how jobs currently done by highly trained white-collar workers can be automated, thanks to the advance of deep learning and other forms of artificial intelligence.
i added 7. as a general design principle learned from the discussions around the gdpr, which, to protect the rights and freedoms of individuals affected by (data processing) technol- ogy, requires technology and organizational designers to design based on the state of the art (see [85] for a discussion of the challenge of translating this legal requirement into engineering practice).
just as the social fabric of society is made up of many communities, each community is made of many groups of personal connections.
this progress was evident at the student symposium on ai and human rights, held in april by global affairs canada (gac) and the canadian institute for advanced research.
as is true for any technology, trust will ultimately depend on whether ai-based systems can be operated reliably, safely and consistently — not only under normal circumstances but also in unexpected conditions or when they are under attack.
they may require cross-functional teams, including domain experts, engineers, product managers, user experience researchers, legal professionals, and others, to test, assess, and  ag possible unintended consequences.
8 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
evaluation may be done by first parties (designers/manufacturers, and users) as well as third parties (e.g., regulators or independent testing agencies).
the prospect of developing artificial systems that are sensitive to human norms and factor them into morally or legally significant decisions has intrigued science fiction writers, philosophers, and computer scientists alike.
(hussain [7] favors the latter reading, but also reports on alternative conceptualizations of the common good.)
create a task force and living laboratory that focuses on the “workplace of the future.” this lab
to social and legal liability for past expressions.
(noting, however that well- being metrics should only be used with consent, respect for privacy, and with strict standards for collection and use of these data).
diversity, personal comfort with diversity, organizational fairness, and orga- nizational inclusion—which explained 57% of the variance.
as automation and ai take on tasks that require thinking and judgement, it will become increasingly important to train people — perhaps through a renewed focus on the humanities — to develop their critical thinking, creativity, empathy, and reasoning.
they're people finding groups, whether they're new parents raising kids or newly diagnosed patients suffering from a disease together.
 provide opportunities for responsible and inclusive ai experimentation and share best practices with other jurisdictions.
it is related to the similar task of using computers to understand human intelligence, but ai does not have to confine itself to methods that are biologically observable.” – john mccarthy
• rickli, j.-m. “some consideration of the impact of laws on international security: strategic stability, non-state actors and future prospects.” meeting of experts on lethal autonomous weapons systems convention on certain conventional weapons (ccw) united nations office geneva, april 16, 2015.
how do we help people build a safe community that prevents harm, helps during crises and rebuilds afterwards in a world where anyone across the world can affect us?
in order to shed light on the issue, this paper aims to be realistic and avoid fiction: identifying the potentiality and the limitations of ai is, in our opinion, a necessary step to identify appropriate public policies.
various loci of accountability include those for commanders (e.g., what are the reasonable standards for commanders to maintain meaningful human control?
the challenge we face now is how to transform bene ts and social insurance programs to provide adequate coverage for workers and a sustainable contribution structure for businesses.
public and social sector
our objective is to grow global ai champions and make canada’s industry more competitive globally.
24 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
however, several contemporary globally relevant community mores are based in traditional and theological moral systems, requiring a conversation around how best to collaborate in the design and programming of ethics in a/is amidst differing ethical traditions.
part to three developments: the increased availability of data; growing cloud computing power; and more powerful algorithms developed by ai researchers.
some have argued that this poses a barrier to ai innovation, both in terms of direct costs associated with manual reviews of algorithmic decisions, but also in terms of limiting potential performance of ai31, whereas others see the gdpr as a move towards improving ai accountability.32
this tension usually materializes when business areas are asked to share data that is secondary to its primary use.
a study from the lazaridis institute for the management of technology enterprises at wilfrid laurier university found that talent gaps in sales, marketing, product management, and business development—the skills needed to transition a startup to market success—are a persistent issue for canadian technology firms.34 both companies and ai suppliers need help to increase their capacity to bring technological solutions to bear on business problems.
but when it comes to human affairs, tomorrow rarely resembles today, and numbers can’t say what has a moral value, nor what is socially desirable.
this has been seen over the years with many forms of pseudo medicine, and there needs to be some principle about the promotion of a mr application that has the consumers’ protection in mind.
philosophically, intellectually—in every way—human society is unprepared for the rise of artificial intelligence.
for instance, the u.s. has established four pillars to guide industry, academic, and government efforts to realize the full potential of ai.
“i hope progressive conservatives read the letter and see that (a basic income) is a good thing for the economy, that it is a conservative-leaning approach,” marinescu said.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 35
discontent can also be fueled by the pervasiveness of digital technologies and the dynamics of information sharing typified by social media.
bringing together small groups of early-career professionals from the public, private, non-profit, and academic sectors, these workshops will engage participants in capacity-building and thought-provoking foresight activities in a collaborative, intimate space.
united nations office of the high commissioner of human rights.
but, in the case of private operators, data sets may also be monetized by their collectors, and thus not available for pro-bono social good cases.
as with other powerful technologies, the development and use of a/is have always involved risk, either because of misuse or poor design (as simple examples being an assembly line worker being injured by a robotic arm or a guard robot running over a child’s foot).
if the developers of c had been considering computer security (in addition to memory efficiency and code elegance), this long-lasting vulnerability could perhaps have been avoided.
laws and regulation almost always lag behind actual use, and this poses a different set of challenges for most companies.
with these issues in mind, canada still has much work to clarify the regulatory environment in place for artificial intelligence.
as you get ready, cortana reads the latest news, research reports and social media activity based on your current work, interests and tasks, all of which she gleaned from your calendar, meetings, communications, projects and writings.
as entrepreneurs rush to develop the latestaitech or use it to solve key business problems, each has a responsibility to consider theethicsof this technology.
pages for the company’s ai research group listed 115 people earlier this month, of whom 15 percent were women.
section 3 will provide definitions of other key terms used in the article, including ai, data science, and knowledge.
who should decide, and according to which modalities, the norms and moral values determining this control?
journal of business ethics 35(1): 35–49; kaptein m and wempe j (1998) twelve gordian knots when developing an organizational code of ethics.
nonetheless, the dominant paradigm for personal data models needs to shift away from system and service-based models not under the control of the individual/human, and toward a model focused on the individual.
data and sys- tem security, while key in the gdpr and also mentioned in some ai ethics codes but not in others, does not receive as much attention in ai as it probably should.
what often matters is the time delay between the fielding of an autonomous system, the decision to engage a weapon against a target, and the impact time.
from a technological point of view, we took a curated list of 18 ai capabilities and sought to identify which types of social problems they could best contribute to solving.
one result of the rapid transformation of work caused by ai and automation is a shortage of critical talent across many industries.
leveraging the power of ai isn’t nearly as complicated as you might think.
how one determines the line between ethical and unethical work on aws requires that one address whether the development, design, production, and use of the system under consideration is itself ethical.
first, we believe that the people designing ai systems should re ect the diversity of the world in which we live.
some countries, such as the united kingdom, embed instruction in computational thinking into classes at every grade level, while others struggle to close the digital skills and computer science education gap.
the philosophy of artificial life.
think through ethical issues and implications of products/services (including conflicts between professed values and underlying business model)
the greater the volume and quality of data available, the more that certain types of ai algorithms can learn, leading to potentially better ai outcomes and offerings.
from the modest library of use cases that we have begun to compile, we can already see tremendous potential to address the world’s most important challenges, from hunger to disease to education.
whilst this declaration is focused on machine learning technologies, many of the norms and principles included are equally applicable to artificial intelligence more widely, as well as to related data systems.
as ai technologies progress, we’ll work with a range of stakeholders to promote thoughtful leadership in this area, drawing on scientilcally rigorous and multidisciplinary approaches.
nurse practitioners, social workers, and governments) should be trained to detect the influence due to ai and in effective mitigation techniques.
— are emerging alongside legal identities (issued by governments, banks, and regulatory authorities) to help put individuals at the center of their data in the algorithmic age.
it makes strategic judgments about the future, some based on data received as code (for example, the rules of a game), and some based on data it gathers itself (for example, by playing 1 million iterations of a game).
• roff, h. m. “meaningful human control or appropriate human judgment.” briefing paper for the delegates at the 5th review conference at the convention on certain conventional weapons, geneva, december 2016.
brewer (2007: 729) argues that in-group positivity does not imply out-group derogation (the “out-group hostility principle”) and provides evidence supporting this view.
ai’s tools and techniques can be misused by authorities and others with access to them, and principles for their use will need to be established (see box 2, “a growing body of research on the ethics of ai”).
• professional training, internship, and work (tax and employment data)
“towards artificial emotions to assist social coordination in hri.” international journal of social robotics 7 no.
because of their nature, the full benefit of these technologies will be attained only if they are aligned with our defined values and ethical principles.
new york: oxford university press, 2008. this book describes some of the challenges of having a one-size-fits-all approach to embedding human values in autonomous systems.
our hope is that this paper sparks further discussion about where ai capabilities can be applied for social good, and scaled up, so that their full societal potential can be realized.
paul polman, unilever chief executive officer: “the embankment project for inclusive capitalism (epic) has made good progress in closing the communication gaps between companies and their investors to better demonstrate the value of intangible assets which are too often discounted or not measured at all.
3. protection of privacy and intimacy principle
when discussing the responsibility of private actors, the un guiding principles on business and human rights should be reflected.
• each request for data acquisition must come on a case-by-case basis versus an ongoing access form of access, unless the ongoing access has become law.
of public trust in a/is.
6. commercially marketed ai should not be considered to be a person in a legal sense, nor marketed as a person.
hence, there is a need to understand a/is well-being related processes and impacts further, and to devise ways to protect people from harm and secure well-being in the furtherance of a/is.
ai systems should treat everyone in a fair and balanced manner and not affect similarly situated groups of people
if governments deploy systems on human populations without frameworks for accountability, they risk losing touch with how decisions have been made, thus making it di cult for them to identify or respond to bias, errors, or other problems.
is taking a generic approach to data protection and data privacy, but it is well applicable
states and private actors should promote the development and use of these technologies to help people more easily exercise and enjoy their human rights.
this can be related to the common good literature in that this literature also investigates what is likely to happen under different structures of people acting, deliberat- ing, deciding, and collaborating.
one of the fundamental assumptions most laws and regulations rely on is that human beings are the ultimate decision-makers.
any unsatisfactory conditions, when they have attained the state where they are completely free from any passions, including desire, anger, and delusion (to name the traditional three), which ensnare one’s self against freedom.
research suggests the best solutions for improving discourse may come from getting to know each other as whole people instead of just opinions -- something facebook may be uniquely suited to do.
it's worth noting that major advances in ai are required to understand text, photos and videos to judge whether they contain hate speech, graphic violence, sexually explicit content, and more.
second, society is already familiar with a broad range of automated systems and many other existing and prospective ai technologies and services.
on some form of injury should adopt a similar scheme to that of product liability litigation, wherein companies are not penalized or held
to go further, we should use the human rights frameworks and labour laws we have.
“transparent, explainable, and accountable ai for robotics.” science robotics 2, no.
to prepare for changes in the labour market, the eu initiative on ai put emphasis on helping workers in jobs that are most likely to be most transformed by automation, robotics, and ai and training more specialists in ai.
the ability for real-time personalization of this mixed-reality world raises ethical questions concerning the rights of the individual and control over one’s multifaceted identity, especially as the technology moves from headsets to more subtle and integrated sensory enhancements.
as the discussions of data science and robot(ic)s has shown, it is usually not straightforward to an- alyze, let alone build a “purely ai” system.
mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 37
the use of a/is in support of the pragmatic outcomes noted above is best framed within four key domains that comprise the following four sections: economics, privacy and safety, education, and equal availability.
building on the discussion initiated by the 2016 g7 ict ministerial meeting in takamatsu, g7 members have undertaken studies on the potential social, economic, ethical, and legal issues raised by ai, as well as ai’s socio-economic impact.
for example, fast.ai has shown that, using its framework and a cloud computing instance, a model can be trained on the imagenet corpus of images to create a model with a 93 percent accuracy rate to identify objects in images for only $25.45
— e.g., violent shooting games, highly sexualized or illicit content — limits public oversight of controversial content consumption.
18 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
for example, a team seeking to increase the well-being of people using wheelchairs found that when provided the opportunity to use a smart wheelchair, some users were delighted with the opportunity
with alternative realities in reach, people may inhabit them to avoid facing problems they encounter in real life.
• ieee p7006tm, standard for personal data artificial intelligence (ai) agent was launched in the summer of 2017 and is currently in development.
as an illustration, consider the distance between the united states and other countries in terms of the moral preferences extracted from the moral machine (‘mm distance’).
• social media is source used to measure
a de nition of “automated decision system” that focuses on individual pro ling has a precedent.
to avoid such problems, the organization deploying the ai solution could either ensure that it has the capability to maintain and operate a tool in the long term or contract for technical support, including updating and maintaining the model.
‘ethics’ has become an increasingly urgent topic of discussion in the technology industry, from questions about ‘ethical ai’ to the ethics of autonomous vehicles and the ethics of our new digital media culture.
level but also through the engagement of business, public authorities, and policy makers.
moreover, machine learning applications can already predict, with 90% precision in some cases, if a citizen is at risk of being chronically excluded from society.
for the benefit of all humanity and in the service of widely shared ethical ideals” (bostrom 2014, 254).
• creategeneralizedrulesforindividualsand organizations that have responsibilities for important “human goods”
6. equity principle
sets used to train them.7 for example, a recent report by mit and stanford researchers showed how some commercially available facial recognition systems perform poorly when applied to faces of women and people of color.8 a study by harvard’s berkman klein center shows how some popular ai use cases could both positively and negatively impact specific aspects
this poses a major challenge for a universal code of data ethics: there may be too few commonalities across the speci c uses of data science to pull together a single code.
is required for operators, how to measure the performance of the a/is, and what operators and other people can expect from the a/is.
how can canadian companies gain the benefits of this disruptive technology while ensuring that large segments of society are not left behind?
the government of canada is working towards releasing the first version of its directive on automated decision-making, which, in its current draft29, sets out several requirements for ai development and use.
in both cases, what the students were interested in and were able to learn had a significant impact on the trajectory of the project.
in many cases, individual data subjects were not notified at all of the transfer of their data in the course of business or government exchanges.
such events could engender policies that unnecessarily stifle entire industries, or regulations that do not effectively advance public interest
there is a clear positive relationship, with a correlation between the participation and unemployment gender gaps of 0.53, consistent with the first cross-country implication of our analysis.
other capabilities have social potential, including sound recognition, reinforcement learning, and advanced analytics beyond these three capabilities, our use case library suggests that other capabilities, including both developing ai ones and more established advanced analytics, have potential applications for social benefit.
to use derogatory language to talk about certain social groups does violate such norms.
making comparisons horizontally across each row highlights which capabilities could be particularly suitable for social good use cases.
should the development of ai be neutral or should it seek to reduce social and economic inequalities?
the complexity of this effort is huge, as it impacts on school organization which typically tend to resist to change.
notes: data from the bureau of labor statistics.
• casd — le centre d’accès sécurisé aux données (the secure data access centre) is equipment that allows users, researchers, data scientists, and consultants to access and work with individual and highly detailed microdata, which are therefore subject
heretofore, the technological advance that most altered the course of modern history was the invention of the printing press in the 15th century, which allowed the search for empirical knowledge to supplant liturgical doctrine, and the age of reason to gradually supersede the age of religion.
specifically, metrolab hopes to foster the kind of urban innovation that “requires an emerging cross-disciplinary academic field, partnered with local government, to explore the ways that data, technology, and analytics can address urban challenges” (“metrolab network,” n.d.).
activity members expressly disclaim all warranties (express, implied, and statutory) related to this work, including, but not limited to, the warranties of: merchantability; fitness for a particular purpose; non-infringement; quality, accuracy, effectiveness, currency, or completeness of the work or content within the work.
while our research has so far not identified actual deployment of sdl for social good in the world today, our use case library suggests that it has considerable potential to be used for noncommercial purposes across a range of domains because tabular data exists in relative abundance in almost every domain.
amadeo trambajolo, diplomatic advisory to the minister of labour and social policies, italy:
public opinion related to trust, safety, privacy, employment, and the economy will drive public policy.
in india, where women make up only 29% of internet users, community leaders in rural rajasthan ban girls from social media due to their gender.
the commission will also support the development of an “ai-on-demand platform” that will provide access to relevant ai resources in the eu for all users.
artificial intelligence: the next digital frontier?
if its computational power continues to compound rapidly, ai may soon be able to optimize situations in ways that are at least marginally different, and probably significantly different, from how humans would optimize them.
an algorithmic impact assessment, much like an eis, gives both the agency and the public the opportunity to evaluate the adoption of an automated decision system before the agency has committed to its use.
ethical and societal implications 57 developing policy and law for 74 arti cial intelligence
should we always approach a user’s interaction with a system to help them work on real-world problems, or is it okay to let them get lost in the generated world?
promoting beneficial and just outcomes, avoiding and minimizing harm to others cultivating one’s own character to become increasingly more noble and excellent
like the pillars of enterprise data analytics, the model assesses program areas based on people, process, technology and governance.
for a detailed discussion of  nancial inclusion, see digital  nance for all: powering inclusive growth in emerging economies, mckinsey global institute, september 2016, and the global financial inclusion database, world bank.
mixed reality poses the potential to redefine and reset many human social norms.
many human traditions, on the other hand, can and have manifested as fundamentalism under the guise of morality.
to maximize effective evaluation by third parties (e.g., regulators, accident investigators), a/is should be designed, specified, and documented so as to permit the use of strong verification and validation techniques for assessing the system’s safety and norm compliance, in order to possibly achieve accountability to the relevant communities.
• schwartz, p. “data processing and government administration: the failure of the american legal response to the computer.” hastings law journal 43 (1991): 1321–1389.
• scheutz, m. “the inherent dangers of unidirectional emotional bonds between humans and social robots,” in robot ethics: the ethical and social implications of robotics, edited by p. lin, k. abney, and g. bekey, 205. cambridge, ma: mit press, 2011.
we first examine whether changes in the composition of the labour force explain the evolution of the gender unemployment gap.
 community and social services & children’s services (with partnership across goa ministries) – child and youth data initiative that connects child and youth data from multiple sources for research, with opportunity to securely share linked data.
and publicity, while digital editor lauren meling provided support for online and social media treatments.
the use of ai applications of nudging on computers, chatbots or robots are now increasing steadily in the world, both within the private and public sector for example for health, well-being (eg, would ai tools make us drink less alcohol?
3. educating government, lawmakers, and enforcement agencies surrounding these issues so citizens work collaboratively with them to avoid fear or confusion (e.g., in the same way police officers have given public safety lectures in schools for years; in the near future they could provide workshops on safe a/is).
likewise, resources, user controls, and policies should be put in place to afford individuals the opportunity to retract or erase their data if they feel it is being used in ways they do not understand or desire.
“we need pan-european norms and standards for ai, much as we now have for food and household appliances.
decent work and economic growth 5
to a/is) viz: “if an ethic focused on the good of community, interpreted philosophically as a moral theory, is applied to autonomous and intelligent systems, what would the implications be on the duties of various agents”?
more important than that, it became a major topic for business and policy in a variety of domains: innovation, health, sustainability, security, commerce and, ultimately, growth, economic development and prosperity.
there may be certain types or categories of judicial decisions that people would prefer be performed by ai if so doing would result in faster and cheaper decisions.
as a result, program areas are now actively pursuing individual initiatives to utilize data analytics within their own areas.
key elements of a public agency algorithmic impact assessment
2. big data provides an opportunity to “lead with data” using high-performance digital technologies to harness the wealth of data that resides within our digital repositories.
● environmental sustainability of digital culture:  the rapid growth and spread of computing power places increasing pressure on energy supplies, which contributes to continued carbon emissions and accelerated climate change.
europe has the ambition to be a world leader in responsible and trusted ai, which has the potential to become an important competitive advantage, because users everywhere value their own safety and rights, and investing in ethical ai will raise market confidence in the new technology.
with strong capabilities around data, program areas are focussed on value generation and use data to drive decisions.
however, as i will argue in this paper, even with the best of intentions, certain characteristics of ai thinking and practice, coupled with the inherent need to act in politically charged environments, may impede ‘design for the common good’.
even though modern color calibration standards are more diverse, our standards for what constitute “good images” still overwhelmingly favor white faces rather than black ones.
outside of military uses of aws, other likely applications include use by domestic police forces, as well as coast guards, border patrols, and other domestic security applications.
al- though the results of study 1 are consistent with related research, and both qualitative investigation and a review of the literature were used to derive lists of attributes for diversity and inclusion, the characteristics of the organi- zations that responded may limit the generalizability of the research findings.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 31
one of the major adverse implications of the introduction of value-laden standard(s) of responsible innovation (ri) appears to be the delegitimization of the plausibility of ri based on local values, especially when those values come into conflict with the liberal democratic values, as the local values (or, the ri based on local values) do not enable scientists and technology developers to be recognized as members of the global network of research and innovation (wong, 2016).
research institutions and organizations working on ai use for social causes have supported ai deployment.
any attempt to devise artificial intelligence ethics must be at least cognizant of public morality.
her work addresses issues ranging from online privacy to net neutrality, from data ethics to social media’s impact on friendship and family, from the digital divide to the ethics of encryption, and from the ethics of ai to the right to be forgotten.
the use of technologies, particularly those that automate decision-making, is a problem not just for government but for civil society, communities and the citizens affected by such technologies.
given that larger organizations tend to have more established and comprehensive diversity initiatives and programs (wentling & palma-rivas, 2000), this sample was chosen because of their experience with the implementation of organizational diversity management practices.
how to handle privacy and safety issues, especially as they apply to data in humanitarian and development contexts?
and we must emphasize fundamental knowledges for training workers and use the best redistributive measures to temper the effects of rising inequalities.digital disruption is a people problem
for example, ai-based risk scoring for criminal justice purposes may be trained on historic criminal data that include biases (for example, where african americans are unfairly labeled as high risk).
as we discuss keeping our community safe, it is important to emphasize that part of keeping people safe is protecting individual security and liberty.
she is the winner of the 2015 world technology award in ethics, the 2015 brutocao award for teaching excellence, and the 2017 public intellectual award in scu’s college of arts and sciences.
policymakers must explore how to adjust policies to adequately fund social safety net programs.
canadians: how prepared are the following actors to tackle challenges that ai could pose to society?
ethics education for engineering students should be meaningful, measurable, and incorporate best practices of stem ethics education drawn from pertinent multidisciplinary resources.
we believe there are millions of melishas around the world — people young and old who have imaginative ideas for how to harness ai to address societal challenges.
it is clear that many current tasks in society
importantly, to ensure public accountability and a thriving research  eld, research  ndings and conclusions should be published openly (even if after an embargo period), and be held to standards of scrutiny and peer review within the appropriate research domains.
with a method scope of ai in general (rather than ds in particular), the association for the advance- ment of artificial intelligence held a spring sympo- sium on “ai for the social good” in 2017.6 the aaai spring symposia center on emerging topics in ai; hence, this is an indication of the endorsement of the field, by a major professional association.
inclusion, diversity and equity entails the active participation of, and meaningful consultation with, a diverse community to ensure that machine learning systems are designed and used in ways that respect non-discrimination, equality and other human rights.g7 multistakeholder conference on artificial intelligence: agenda
[64] b. berendt, s. preibusch, toward accountable discrimination-aware data mining: the impor- tance of keeping the human in the loop – and under the looking-glass.
however, the gdpr states that data controllers must notify consumers how their data will be used, including “the existence of automated decision-making, and, at least in those cases, meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject.” [our emphasis]
• according to the hamilton project, more than 70 percent of labor force non-participants report that caregiving, disability or early retirement keeps them
mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 29
in canada, innovation in ai is supported by the public, whether via public funds or institutions, or the personal information of canadians.
4 how to create “ai for the common good”: four lead questions
many of these questions have been and are being debated in the wider literature on the common good, which is the subject of the following section.
it is disingenuous for mr. zuckerberg to claim that facebook, like the social organizations that he sees declining, promotes the kinds of values, cultural norms and systems of accountability that democracy requires.
the ieee global initiative provides the opportunity to bring together multiple voices in the related technological and scientific communities to identify and find consensus on timely issues.
we discuss how these preferences can contribute to developing global, socially acceptable principles for machine ethics.
tools that work at their private behest and beckoning, for their personal benefit.
transparency is only a necessary requirement for a more important long-term goal, having systems be accountable to their users and community members.
provide widespread educational classes on the benefit of positive human connection/touch.
canada is a major stronghold for artificial intelligence (ai) and home to some of the world’s most advanced ai organizations and companies.
this clearly clashes with the strong preference for sparing the young (such as children) that is assessed through the moral machine (see fig.
to do this well, it is important to recognize that the appropriate type and level of access may vary from agency to agency, from system to system, and from community to community.
p7002 specifies how to manage privacy issues for systems or software that collect personal data.
in appropriate cases, we will test ai technologies in constrained environments and monitor their operation after deployment.
one example of how ai can make a difference is a recent microsoft offering called “seeing ai,” available in the ios app store, that can assist people with blindness and low vision as they navigate daily life.
the biggest challenges involve the creation of ways to help people learn new skills, and then rethinking how the labor market operates to enable employers and employees to move in more agile ways to  ll new positions.
responsible ai requires stronger privacy protections and inclusive democratic governance
laurie monsebraaten is a toronto-based reporter covering social justice.
it could be used to describe the command chain that authorizes weapon release, where the commands flow down to a human and a weapon system to take specific actions.
as we realize the potential that disruptive technologies have to change our lives, for the good or the bad (think about the impacts in work, employment, income…), we need to shift the attention to “institutions”.
be cognizant of these challenges as they build and deploy systems, and share information with their customers to help them monitor and understand system behavior so that they can quickly identify and correct any unintended behaviors that may surface.
this will help to give the human operators and beneficiaries an accurate idea of what to expect from the a/is, while also protecting the companies that make the a/is from future litigation.
for example, the guardian mentions “in the midst of the great deluge of personal data that comes from our online lives, there is every sign of these methods being massively extended.
as human workers are replaced by ai, their former employers (e.g., corporations and governments) may find they have eliminated the possibility of employees and customers discovering new equilibria outside the scope
nonetheless, the cohort of government and public policy workers focused on ai governance is a small one.
the cost of human suffering, whatever the cause, and the bene ts of alleviating it, are impossible to precisely gauge and compare.
2 jack smith iv, “crime-prediction tool predpol ampli es racially biased policing, study shows,” mic, oct. 9, 2016, https://mic.com/articles/156286/crime-prediction-tool-pred-pol-only-ampli es-racially-biased-policing-study- shows#.dzeqq4lys; andrew g. ferguson, the rise of big data policing: surveillance, race, and the future of law enforcement, (new york: nyu press, 2017).
as a matter of fact, just like human decision making, specific decisions (i.e.
as we have sought to describe in this paper, the next steps will need to focus on scaling up ai solutions and overcoming the bottlenecks and market failures that are holding it back for now.
that is, a loyal ai agent must only serve the needs of the individual who owns it: apart from being pro-social, it must not be predisposed to act in service of anyone but its owner.
so far, policy recommendations have focused on either rede ning the categories of employees and independent contractor or  nding ways to mitigate the consequences of this difference — often by extending protections, bene ts and social safety net participation to contingent workers.
ethics and compliance teams must work in tandem with it, product, security, and beyond not only to adhere with laws, but also align systems with organizational values.
accountability in ai promoting greater societal trust
not all artificial intelligence is incorporated into robotics, and not all robots are artificially intelli- gent.
applications like these (above) might benefit from the use of move overt standards and practices around their intentions to influence human behavior.
in the case, a court ruled that idaho’s department of health and welfare violated the rights of disabled medicaid recipients by relying upon arbitrary and flawed algorithmic decision systems when cutting benefits,
for businesses, they will need to rethink how they  nd and evaluate talent, broaden the pool of candidates they draw from and use work portfolios to assess competence and skill.
6. scaling up the use of ai for social good
● democracy vs. technocracy/tech ‘solutionism’:  many technologists believe the risks and challenges described above can best be solved by the development of m  ore and better technology.
this is not to diminish the credibility of the studies mentioned above — they are important and valuable works — but these estimates should still be taken with a grain of salt.
a guide for appropriate use of educational data in 2010, that mixes core principles with illustrative
in the main interface of the moral machine, users are shown unavoidable accident scenarios with two possible outcomes, depending on whether the autonomous vehicle swerves or stays on course (fig.
the toronto-waterloo corridor welcomed uber and general motor’s autonomous vehicle development programs, and alphabet’s sidewalk labs recently announced the development of its 12-acre smart city in toronto.
sustainable development goal (sdg) #3, good health and well-being, was the most frequent: eight out of the 43 contributions to the first 3 venues cov- ered topics related to this sdg.
this challenge is frequently referenced as the “internet of other people’s things.” a/is embodied in iot devices and value-chains will need better interfaces and functionality to help subjects understand and participate in the collection and use of their data.
called upon by the united nations, world bank, interpol, and many global enterprises, daniel is a sought-after expert on the competitive strategy implications of ai for business and government leaders.
for example, “governments should offer subsidies or tax incentives to companies that invest in the skills that humans master better than machines, such as communication and negotiation.” another idea, notes kemal derviş of the brookings institution, is a “job mortgage,” whereby firms “with a future need for certain skills would become a kind of sponsor, involving potential future job offers, to a person willing to acquire those skills.”
some members of the ai research community believe that new concerns such as: ai bias (by race, gender, or other criterion), personal privacy, and algorithmic transparency (having clarity on the rules and methods by which machines make decisions) seem to be the more pressing issues of the day.
ai policy development is a new field, and canada faces an opportunity to take the lead in the development of standards to follow 'canadian' values of equality and open-ness in the interests of greater prosperity.
once an action is validated as useful for one pepper robot, all other units (and ostensibly their owners) benefit as well.
 governance frameworks to facilitate the organizational alignment and support, and measure performance as data capabilities are deployed.
the well-being impacts of a/is applied to human genomes are not well understood.
transparency around a/is is a difficult issue because it impinges on the differing needs of developers for trade secrets and users to be able to understand the technology to guard against problems occurring with it, and to hold accountable the correct entity in the event of a system failure.
3 terminology: ai, data sci- ence, knowledge, and ethics- in-ai
38. according to the bureau of labor statistics, 6 million people are work- ing part-time because that is their preference, an increase of 12 percent since 2007. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-08-18/why-6- million-americans-would-rather-work-part-time.
there is a diversity of practitioners that utilize the techniques of data science to provide analysis, insights and advice about a breadth of human activities; all of these actors may have speci c obligations that di er from data scientists.
for society, malicious uses of ai could threaten national security, economic stability, political stability, labor market stability, and infrastructure.
and identity function differently than in real life.
more and more, companies are formalizing the role of chief ethics officer or internal or external ethics boards._microsoft, facebook and law enforcement weapons manufacturer_axon have all assembled teams dedicated to addressing ai ethics in the products they’re building.
software engineers should be required to document all of their systems and related data flows, their performance, limitations, and risks.
this in turn will help foster responsible development of ai systems that will engender trust.
this use case library, which continues to grow and evolve, provides the basis for an in-depth examination of the domains where ai could be used and the applications that are likely to be the most impactful, as well as bottlenecks to impact and risks that will need to be addressed.
1. intimate systems must not be designed or deployed in ways that contribute to sexism, negative body image stereotypes, gender or racial inequality.
first and as argued in the previous section, imparting knowledge may not work in the envisaged way.
through public notice of system adoption, agency self-assessment, a plan for meaningful access for researchers and experts, and due process mechanisms, aias will help to ensure that governments are ready to face the risks presented by automated decision systems.
consistent with this perspective, recent research on women executives in top management teams suggests that, while women have a positive impact on firm performance (krishnan & park, 2005), they leave their firms at a higher rate than male executives do.
artificial intelligence and machine learning
the association for the advancement of artificial intelligence and their formative work on ai ethics, the future of life institute, the partnership on
the social life of information.
3. in addition, governments should scrutinize existing laws — especially those governing business organizations — for mechanisms that could have the practical effect of allowing a/is to have legal autonomy.
use cases that pair satellite data with other data include augmenting remote sensing data from satellites with prices to create a forecast of agricultural production.
if the solution incorrectly indicates that a road is clear of flooding and directs thousands of people toward it, there could be significant consequences, such as increased risk of harm and reduced evacuation speed.
japan’s advisory board on artificial intelligence and human society states that to fight the ai divide, one of the most important issues will be to create a “space for dialogue among people with different visions and ideas and to consider common, fundamental social values27.” for its part, the european union has started to draft ai ethics guidelines that will address issues
then there are the broader issues that the denizens of silicon valley expect their employers to have a stance on: immigration, income inequality, artificial intelligence, automation, transgender rights, climate change, privacy, data rights and whether tech companies should be helping the government do controversial things.
4.4.1 the power of knowledge: ai and fram- ing effects
importantly, given changing technologies, the developing research  eld around accountability, and the shifting social and political contexts within which systems are deployed, access to a system will almost certainly need to be ongoing, and take the form of monitoring over time.66
before devising new regulations or laws, there needs to be some clarity about the fundamental issues and principles that must be addressed.
model used in the target environment and demonstrated suf cient value to drive large-scale adoption by actor (for example, ngo).
source: elizabeth bondi et al., spot poachers in action: augmenting conservation drones with automatic detection in near real time, 32nd aaai conference on arti cial intelligence, april 27, 2018; mckinsey global institute analysis
we built a library of use cases of ai for societal good using both social-first and tech-first approaches.
determining whether an individual is morally responsible requires understanding the organizations in which they work and to establish relevant facts in relation to the individual’s acts and intentions.
the a/is industry legal counsel should work with legal experts to identify the regulations and laws that will not function properly when the “decision- maker” is a machine and not a person.
users have the option to share this summary with their social network.
opponents such as cyber-attacks, or deception so that the automated functions act according to design but against an incorrect target.
an ecosystem of data trusts would shift the balance back to better reflect the concerns of individual data subjects.
these public engagements seem to function solely as a way to add legitimacy to an existing document.
arti cial intelligence will help your doctor analyze your results using more than a terabyte of health data, helping her accurately diagnose and prescribe
thus, our aim could be to encourage appropriate levels of trust in ai, with accountability regimes taking the nuances of over and under trust into account.11
a good example of this is “innereye,” a project in which u.k.-based researchers at microsoft have teamed up with oncologists to develop an ai system to help treat cancer more effectively.5
for exam ple, ac c ording to jangquing jia6 , direc tor of engineering for fac ebook's ai platform, “to train one typical imagenet model takes about one exaflop of computing”.
the effort goes into making data suitable for training purposes by cleaning them up, annotating them and converting to a processable format.
the algorithms behind intelligent or autonomous systems are not subject to consistent oversight.
the issue of the legal status of complex intelligent and autonomous technical systems thus intertwines with broader legal questions regarding how to ensure accountability and allocate liability when such systems cause harm.
this map is used to monitor change over time and inform conservation interventions for the reef ecosystems that are under threat.3 at thorn, an international anti–human traf cking nonpro t organization, a combination of face detection and person identi cation, social network analysis, natural language processing, and analytics is being used to identify victims of sexual exploitation on the internet and dark web.
researchers, governments and businesses must cooperatively develop ethical guidelines that help to ensure a responsible use ofaito the benefit of all.
the need to differentiate culturally distinctive values embedded in ai design.
these issues and their consequences will not discriminate, and the impact will be far-reaching — affecting everyone, including public citizens, small businesses utilizingaior entrepreneurs developing the latest tech.
some tribunals that make important decisions about the legal rights of parties — such as the ontario landlord and tenant board — do not require their adjudicators to have a law degree.
10 christopher fonzone and kate heinzelman, “should the government regulate artificial intelligence?
this lab was designed to facilitate capacity building for emerging policy leaders, both within and outside of the civil service, by encouraging critical thinking surrounding a number of possible future ai scenarios based in 2028. the workshop incorporated foresight exercises with brainstorming activities to develop contemporary ai policy approaches in a variety of domains.
businesses should begin thinking about what labor may soon be automated and how their workforce can be utilized in other areas.
http://robertoalvarez.netthe ethics of artificial intelligence — integrate.ai
this relationship may be explained by regular encounters with inequality seeping into people’s moral preferences, or perhaps because broader egalitarian norms affect both how much inequality a country is willing to tolerate at the societal level, and how much inequality participants endorse in their moral machine judgments.
to ensure goods are properly stocked and priced;26 at amazon, they currently use more than 100,000 robots in
challenges in society that include harm prevention—both from crime and other physical dangers—as well as tracking criminals and mitigating bias of police forces.
aws might be turned against peaceful demonstrators when human law enforcement might not do the same.
we believe that ai offers incredible opportunities to drive widespread economic and social progress.
with the exception of empirical evidence suggesting that inclusion is positively related to job satisfaction (acquavita et al., 2009) and that exclusion from decision making is a predictor of intention to leave (mor barak et al.,
while some on-demand digital platforms offer worker protections, others have taken the position that even baseline worker protections do not apply to the on-demand labor model.
i believe that they are applicable for other goals too, but the questions to be asked will depend on the specific technology fields and design goals.
pools that incentivize research on a/is that benefits the public, but which may not be commercially viable.
mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 17
both industry and community must develop effective mechanisms to filter bias as well as negative sentiment in the data that ai learns from - ensuring ai does not perpetuate stereotypes.
this notion of autonomy can be applied separately to each of the many functions of a weapons system; thus, an automatic weapons system could be autonomous in searching
• ieee p7004tm, standard on child and student data governance
6) safety: ai systems should be safe and secure throughout their operational lifetime, and verifiably so where applicable and feasible.
figure 1: data is the foundation of knowledge and wisdom.
• whitbeck, c. “teaching ethics to scientists and engineers: moral agents and moral problems.“ science and engineering ethics 1, no.
good in the categories of energy, water and waste management, transportation,
box 2. a growing body of research on the ethics of ai (continued)
could a person have a personalized privacy ai or algorithmic agent or guardian?
though the prospect of walking into a courtroom and being confronted by a robot judge remains the stuff of science fiction, we have entered an era in which informed commentators confidently predict that the foreseeable future will include autonomous artificial intelligences passing bar exams, getting licensed to practice law and, in the words of matthew and jean-gabriel castel in their 2016 article “the impact of artificial intelligence on canadian law and the legal profession,” “perform[ing] most of the routine or ‘dull’ work done by justices of the peace, small claims courts and administrative boards and tribunals.” hundreds of thousands of canadians are affected by such work every year.
examples include the european social survey, bhutan’s gross national happiness indicators, and well-being surveys created by the uk office for national statistics.
this should start with the adoption of responsible ai technologies in the public sector.
 these ai capabilities are especially pertinent in four large domains—health and hunger, education, security and justice, and equality and inclusion—where the potential usage frequency is high and where typically a large target population would be affected.
• neier, a., “talking trash: what’s more important, human dignity or freedom of speech?” columbia journalism review, september/october 2012.
this article is part of theethical and social dimensions of aispecial feature.save the ontario basic income trial
our society will reflect our collective values only if we engage in the civic process and participate in self-governance.
governments are increasingly concerned about the opportunities and challenges opened up by disruptive technologies — to be clear, national technology initiatives are not new per se, but surely have a new push in the disruption era.
recognizing its implications for ai development and adoption, the conference will focus on how we can enable environments that foster societal trust and build upon a common vision of human-centric ai.
 development and utilization of ai is in the early stage, and in order not to hamper innovation, the principles governing ai should be non-regulatory.
through affordable and universal access to communications networks and the internet, intelligent and autonomous technical systems can be made available to and benefit populations anywhere.
the number of people that report using ai tools should be much higher, given that 76 percent of canadians own a smartphone and likely use google maps or virtual assistants like iphone’s siri.32
a/is, collaborating together, could understand the well-being impacts and objectives of products, services, organizations, and a/is within the context of the well-being of communities, cities, countries, and the planet using the sdg index
to that end, since the creation of the first draft of ethically aligned design this committee recommended ideas for the following ieee standards working groups which have been and approved and are free for all to join (click on links for details):
reading the full version of ethically aligned design which inspired these standard working groups (which can be found here) may be fruitful, in addition to brainstorming about “if-then scenarios” for one’s business in the years ahead.
it’s perplexing: not only is canada in an arguably optimal position to lead ai governance, but ai is currently one of the most widely discussed public policy areas.
many leaders within the big tech industry will claim, for instance, that we must teach people how to code computer programs.
while proffered by futurists and atheists, the hierarchy dates back to the great chain of being that medieval christian theologists like thomas aquinas built to cut the physical and spiritual world into analytical pieces, applying aristotelian scientific rigor to the spiritual topics.
a human, and conflate intelligence with consciousness.
anonymiza on and other methods for privacy-aware data sharing are certain- ly key for the goal of privacy by design, and master will certainly contribute to the emerging  eld of data privacy for rich spa otemporal data.
but now that capital growth is outpacing job growth, that model is breaking down.
• procurement authority: only contract with contractors who have proper legal and security processes; carry out article 36 reviews at all major steps in the procurement process; maintain database of design, tests, and review evidence.
correlative uses of repurposed data in research and industry represents both the greatest promise and the greatest risk posed by data analytics.
a legal theory for autonomous artificial agents.
de eu moet een beleid voeren dat ervoor zorgt dat de ontwikkeling, inzet en het gebruik van artificial intelligence (ai) in europa in het voordeel, en niet in het nadeel, werkt van de samenleving en het sociaal welzijn bevordert, zei het eesc in een initiatiefadvies over de maatschappelijke impact van ai waarin 11 domeinen voor actie worden gesignaleerd.
even when reflecting the full system of community norms that was identified, a/is may show operation biases that disadvantage specific groups in the community or instill biases in users by reinforcing group stereotypes.
5) race avoidance: teams developing ai systems should actively cooperate to avoid corner-cutting on safety standards.
subjects: business & economics, economics, sociology, political science, social sciences
foundational skills include problem- solving, work ethic, teamwork, curiosity and interpersonal communication.
researchers have also started to study how civil society could use ai to change existing political paradigms and enable strong political
data privacy, viewed technically, does not need to make a clear dis nc on between protec ng informa on and control over it related to individuals (a concept root- ed in human rights) and protec ng in-
for social good; jim bildner at drk foundation; jeremy howard at fast.ai; amy luers at future
this program will provide funding and support to bring together new teams including members from canada, france, and the uk, to explore emerging questions about how ai affects the world today and tomorrow.
“last mile” implementation challenges are also a significant bottleneck for ai deployment for social good
ahead of other strategic consultancy firms, mckinsey global inst highlighted in a 2013 report the impacts that “disruptive technologies” would/could have in business and society.
to solutions where the in-house working methods ensure that engineers have thought through the potential impact of their technology, where a responsible attitude
there are many discussions taking place now at supranational, state and regional level, in technology companies, at academic institutions, in civil society and beyond, focussing on how to make ai human-centric and the “ethics” of artificial intelligence.
three years ago, at a conference on transatlantic issues, the subject of artificial intelligence appeared on the agenda.
if that weren’t enough, at a macro level, artificial intelligence can optimize margins, directing spend and human resources to those customers where outreach and engagement would lead to the highest return.
5 rob matheson, “arti cial intelligence model ‘learns’ from patient data to make cancer treatment less toxic,” mit news, august 9, 2018, news.mit.edu/2018/arti cial-intelligence-model-learns-patient-data-cancer- treatment-less-toxic-0810.
for nobel laureate economist christopher pissarides and jacques bughin of the mckinsey global institute, the ai revolution need not “conjure gloom-and-doom scenarios about the future of work,” so long as governments rise to the challenge of equipping workers “with the right skills” to prepare them for future market needs.
at points on the goal-directed continuum associated with greater sophistication, virtue ethics become even more useful by providing a framework for prudent decision-making that is in keeping with the autonomous system’s purpose, but allows for creativity in how to achieve the purpose in a way that still allows for a degree of predictability.
one of the distinguishing characteristics of our framework of inclusion is the notion that individuals want to feel a sense of belonging, as well as feeling valued, for their unique attri- butes.
by mid–2019 the commission will also issue guidance on the interpretation of theproduct liability directivein the light of technological developments, to ensure legal clarity for consumers and producers in case of defective products.news.sap.com
a mapping of use cases to data accessibility and ai capability maturity shows that the impact is highly varied.
commit to not use data to make sensitive inferences or to make important eligibility determinations absent consent.
as we move forward, it will be essential for governments, the private sector, academia, and the social sector to join together to explore how to best support workers in the
presentation at the ai for good global summit 2018, geneva, may 15-
the above misunderstanding in definitions of autonomy arise in part because of the tendency for humans to shape artificial creations in their own image, and our desire to lend our human experience to shaping a morphology of artificially intelligent systems.
this article was motivated both by the challenges for ai and the specific current concern within ai about the good and the common good.
the privacy threat is the most discussed risk: when is informed consent or opt-in really ethical and effective?
in 1998, one would have been hard-pressed to  nd a full- time “privacy lawyer.” this legal discipline was just emerging with the advent of the initial digital privacy laws, perhaps most notably the european community’s data protection directive, adopted in 1995. but the founding of the international association of privacy professionals, or iapp, the leading professional organization in the  eld, was still two years away.
under this classi cation, on-demand workers are not protected by minimum wage and overtime pay requirements, child labor regulations, or anti-discrimination and anti-harassment laws.
they also question whether technologists in democratic nations act as unelected ‘technocrats’ – trespassing on the democratic franchise of the citizenry by means of regulatory capture, relentless privatization of public functions, and degradation of the civic power of communities to design their own solutions to social problems.
although there is no scientiﬁc progress or social life without risk, it is up to the citizens to determine the moral and political ends that give meaning to the risk encountered in an uncertain world.
• in the united states, a recent court case, armstrong, highlights the need for appropriate oversight of algorithmic decision-making,
computers are very good at discerning patterns in data that are too subtle for people to notice.
3. a/is should be designed with transparency and accountability as primary objectives.
in implementing aias, agencies should consider incorporating aias into the processes they already use to procure automated decision systems or any existing pre-acquisition assessment processes the agency already undertakes.21 a pre-procurement aia gives an agency the opportunity to engage the public and proactively identify concerns, establish expectations, and draw on expertise and understanding from relevant stakeholders.
our use case library does not use the same taxonomy as the sdgs because their goals are not directly related to ai usage, unlike ours; about 20 of the cases in our library do not map to the sdgs at all.14
to understand the jurisdictional and specific legal requirements that govern the access and use
or strict regulations be placed on the development of sex robots for private use or in the sex industry?
academic research efforts such as those highlighted at the annual conference for researchers on fairness, accountability, and transparency in machine learning have raised awareness of the issue.
an operator and co-collaborator whereby both user and system mutually recognize the decisions of the autonomous system as virtue ethics based.
a more effective approach is to show a range of perspectives, let people see where their views are on a spectrum and come to a conclusion on what they think is right.
and content of relevant legislation that preserve well-being, such as, for the united states, the health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) and the genetic information non- discrimination act (gina).
damore based his thesis on ideas from evolutionary psychology and the big 5 personality traits, arguing, in essence, that because psychological differences exist between men and women (true), these are therefore bound to biology (tenuous), and therefore explain differences between men and women in their interest and subsequent representation in the field of computer science and programming (no evidence provided, and ahistorical — see below).
although the results provided support for these varying approaches to diversity management and their relationships to specific group outcomes, the study’s design was intended for theory development concern- ing diversity management paradigms rather than for examining the practices and processes that may support each paradigm.
the freedom to explore and invent is a hallmark of the human spirit.
replacing workers with autonomous systems may increase inequality in the economy if it leads to a contraction of the labour market (fewer jobs for workers, at least in the short term) while business owners keep making money.
● algorithmic bias and injustice : use of algorithmic decision-making to conceal, legitimize, or perpetuate harmful or unjust human biases
to reach larger scale and impact, it is recommended to foster joint projects and activities with european partners whenever this is possible as well as the exchange between science and industry.
like a computer or a network of computers, powered or not, with ai, could benefit from using one’s own personal dedicated ai to protect one’s autonomy.
for example, in one kind of ai model called a “decision tree,” the model looks like a giant tree of yes/no questions.
next, we highlight four important cultural and economic predictors of moral machine preferences.
artificial intelligence could hardwire sexism into our future.
atic, that procedures are important, and that groups with different interests and demands may have dif- ferent notions of the common good.
a healthy society needs these communities to support our personal, emotional and spiritual needs.
because the ethical implications of intelligent systems are so difficult to discern, interested parties would benefit from analytical tools to implement standards and guidelines related to a/is and privacy impacts.
data interpretation will challenge the purpose
the smart contract system would be a public infrastructure that manages interactions with personal profiles and other data.
it should be noted that any impact assessment created by a/is and well- being experts working together identify best-in-class (existing) metrics within specific contexts of use.
for instance, children interacting with these systems can learn social and cultural values, which may be different from those present in their local community.
the questions will be illustrated by references to a running example from the domain of “ai for so- cial good”.
can an artificial agent, such as tay, microsoft’s “racist” chatbot, be morally culpable and responsible?
alongside these solutions, ai has the potential to make life easier for the visually impaired
here the ethics function should assume a leading role, not only in driving awareness of these issues, including their impacts to the bottom line, but also developing processes to identify, document and research mitigation techniques.
• omohundro, s. “autonomous technology and the greater human good.” journal of experimental and theoretical artificial intelligence 26, no.
mckelvey is also participating in an initiative led by université de montréal that has come up with the montreal declaration for a responsible development of ai.
3. if it is proven through scientific studies that therapeutic uses of this technology could reduce recidivism in those who commit sex crimes, controlled use for those purposes only should be permitted, under legal and/ or medical supervision.
can and should holis c trajectories measure and visualize the enormous costs caused by such decisions, as well as the incen-  ves and in uences this may have on further behaviour by vessel operators?
in particular, artifacts used in society could cause harm either by amplifying or damping human emotional experience.
moral machines: teaching robots right from wrong.
although they reﬂect the moral and political culture of the society in which they were developed, they provide the basis for an intercultural and international dialogue.
due to the transnational nature of a/is, globally synchronized policies can have a greater impact on public safety and technological innovation.
identity is emerging at the forefront of the risks and opportunities related to use of personal
to cite just three: planet labs, an earth-imaging silicon valley startup, partnered with paul g. allen philanthropies and leading research scientists to create a global map of shallow-water coral reefs by applying object detection to satellite imagery in correlation with geospatial data.
for personal data would not need to “reinvent the wheel.” existing privacy and personal data metrics and frameworks can be integrated into consent program management, as it becomes relevant.
keywords: artificial intelligence, machine learning, data science, ai ethics, ethics and ethics codes, risks and impacts, common good, ai for social good
outcome: reduced duplication, improved efficiencies, cost savings and resource utilization.
it is recommended that through the application of rri, as founded in classical ethics theory, research in a/is design utilize available tools and approaches to better understand the design process, addressing ethical concerns from the very beginning of the design stage of the project, thus maintaining a stronger more efficient methodological accountability throughout.
given the challenges of distinguishing between social use and commercial use, the price may be too high for ngos and others wanting to deploy the data for societal benefit.
surveillance impact reports on technology the city already uses,39 the city has begun to make the list of technologies publicly available in a simple, accessible format, allowing the public to raise informed questions.40 the value of those simple disclosures alone can be a major asset for researchers and the public.
key issues of transparency, accountability, and algorithmic bias are being directly addressed for the design and implementation of a/is.
but bringing in computer scientists, legal experts, mathematicians and software engineers just to help civil society understand a piece of software is simply not feasible.
it could be valuable for ta to keep an eye on machine ethics.
our analysis about the risks and benefits of ai on work and employment relies on the assumption that in most contexts, we will have to consider the challenges of achieving true complementarity between human and machine through organizational choices and continuous learning.
although it may not be a leader in all cases, especially those involving the relationship between ai and indigenous peoples, the support given to students to participate in this conference indicates a commitment to public participation.
that box in the center is called a “model,” as in “a model of how the world works,” and that box is the ai part.
ethically aligned design will provide insights and recommendations that provide a key reference for the work of technologists in the related fields of science and technology in the coming years.
professional  ethics (ethical norms, values, & practices distinctive to a particular profession)
 projects and other work streams are effectively delivered and the target benefits are realized.
other theories within the diversity literature on individuals in groups describe the expe- rience of diverse individuals as being negative as a result of their dissimilarity from other group members.
 support public education and public ethics research.
big data & society 3(1): 1–14.
algorithms can help increase price transparency, which will help businesses and consumers buy products at the lowest cost.
• the british computer society (bcs) code of conduct holds that individuals have
a precious  rst contribu on from prof. berendt giving her ethical view on two typical cases of privacy in trajectory data is reported later in the newsle er.
for the benefit of society.
a lack of awareness of what’s on offer and a disconnect between companies that supply ai services or products and their consumers may also be holding back business investment.
public agencies are rightly concerned about these issues, and in many cases, reluctant to make use of datasets that raise ethical concerns.
international human rights law has been firmly established for decades and the protection of human rights must be an end result in itself.
from a theoretical perspective, this research underscores a need for further research to consider the concept as well as determinants and outcomes of inclusion as an approach to diversity management.
• zarsky, t. “the trouble with algorithmic decisions: an analytic roadmap to examine efficiency and fairness in automated
similarly, advances in open-source ai libraries have substantially simplified many of the tasks previously requiring significant programming skill and knowledge of ai algorithms.
attention is also called to the possibility that implementation of any or all of this work may require use of subject matter covered by patent rights.
6) ais should help improve risk management and foster conditions for a society with a more equitable and mutual distribution distribution of individual and collective risks.
it feels repugnant to demarcate people into classes, so why not project differences we live day in and day out in social interactions onto angels instead?
as more and more computing devices subtly and overtly influence human behavior, it is important to draw attention to whether it is ethically appropriate to pursue this type of design pathway.
hence, the possible ineffectiveness of the declaration warrants meaningful government involvement and broader public engagement.
at a recent conference convened to help governments and non-profits use data more effectively, one seasoned administrator gave some pragmatic advice to her counterparts who are thinking about getting into the data science game: “hire a conscience.” what she seemed to be suggesting was partnering with ethicists who can consider all the things that could go wrong, working with legal scholars who understand precedents, collaborating with social scientists who understand cultural nuance.
some authors refer to isaac asimov and his three laws of robotics and reflect upon the basic meanings and implications of machine ethics (cf.
much work remains to be done to make these innovations applicable to everyday use.
after 2009, both the female and male participation rates declined at a similar rate until 2015. the dramatic rise in female participation and the notable decline in male participation have received considerable attention in the literature (goldin 1990, goldin and katz 2002, autor and duggan 2003, greenwood et al.
whereas the ethical preferences of the public should not necessarily be the primary arbiter of ethical policy, the people’s willingness to buy autonomous vehicles and tolerate them on the roads will depend on the palatability of the ethical rules that are adopted.
history shows that many new technologies have created misgivings, dating back at least to the 16th century with the invention of the stocking frame.12 as has happened in the past, all stakeholders, from civil society to ai researchers to government, will need to collaborate to de ne what is—and is not— acceptable, if the positive bene ts that the technologies offer are to become a reality.
every business, large, medium, small, or even a startup at its inception stage, designing, deploying, and using autonomous and semi-autonomous systems should be considering this standard.
 support localized ai accountability and trustworthiness work that draws on region-specific law, economics, or culture.
because diversity research describes diversity and inclusion as related rather than as mutually exclusive concepts, this study examined the extent to which specific characteristics supported both diver- sity and inclusion.
technology that will benefit a diverse society?
it is unclear whether canada will secure these, but it is reasonable to assume that canada’s lower costs relative to the us, excellent quality of living, and highly-educated workforce will continue to attract tech investments.
if ambiguities or loopholes in the law could create a legal method for recognizing a/is personhood, the government should review and, if appropriate, amend the pertinent laws.
• the roots of the personal privacy a/is should be devoid of backdoors that allow intrusion under methods outside of transparent legal authority.
p7008 establishes a delineation of typical nudges (currently in use or that could be created) that contains concepts, functions and benefits necessary to establish and ensure ethically driven methodologies for the design of the robotic, intelligent and autonomous systems that incorporate them.
● technological ‘psyops’/manipulation:  the use of techniques such as ai, targeted digital advertising, and behavioral ‘nudging’ to alter our beliefs, desires, emotions, habits, and values in ways that we do not control or want
3. multi-stakeholder ecosystems should be developed to help create norms (which can mature to best practices and laws) where they do not exist because a/is-oriented technology and their impacts are too new (including representatives of civil society, law enforcement, insurers, manufacturers, engineers, lawyers, etc.
it is likely that not all agi-level a/is architectures are alignable with human interests, and as such, care should be taken to analyze how different architectures will perform as they become more capable.
a/is must have learning capacities to track such variations and incorporate user input (e.g., about the subtle differences between contexts) to refine the system’s norm network (see issue 2).
personal data rights and individual access control
businesses who want to be part of the conversation around ai ethics are free to contact the ieee’s working groups (see the links under the summary sections of the working groups above) and consider joining and informing the ongoing dialogue as these standards continue to be developed.
with this in mind, how can humanity best approach the interdisciplinary and cross- cultural impacts that the new ar/vr artistic paradigms will offer?
• the ethical requirements for engineering have an independent basis from the
effective governance, however, requires an understanding of the potential harm that can come from ai systems, and how privacy, security or ethics concerns intersect with existing laws and regulations.
we want to combine the capabilities of computers with human capabilities to enable people to achieve more.
according to research on 12 developed economies by accenture, such countries have the potential to double their annual economic growth rates by 2035 if they implement ai.
as our knowledge about the present is increasingly filtered through statistical models aimed at specific target markets, we may need the same comparative strategies to understand our own lives.
 scaling up ai usage for social good will require overcoming some significant bottlenecks, especially around data accessibility and talent.
applying goal-directed behavior (virtue ethics) to autonomous and intelligent systems.
rocks don’t get much love on the great chain of being, even if they carry the wisdom and resilience of millions of years of existence, contain, in their sifting shifting grain of sands, the secrets of fragility and the whispered traces of tectonic plates and sunken shores.
ai amplifying human ingenuity
but as far back as the first industrial revolution, the introduction of any new technology has caused concern about the impact on jobs and employment — ai and automation are no different.
• asaro, p. “‘hands up, don’t shoot!’ hri and the automation of police use of force,” special issue on robotics law and policy, journal of human-robot interaction 5, no.
and al- though “data can help ci zens demand accountability”, “ul-  mately, the inferences that
or systems contain intellectual property that cannot be released to the general public.
there’s no doubt that canada could lead the planet in artificial intelligence (ai).
notes from the ai frontier: modeling the impact of ai on the world economy (september 2018)
in government, for example, if a program or project fails, budgets can get cut, people can get fired, elected officials can get unelected.
sequencing dna dropped even faster than moore’s law, the ability to process large quantity of data is becoming even more fundamental.
the ethics of caring technologies,” in robot ethics: the ethical and social implications of robotics, edited by p. lin, k. abney,
involve local delivery, must be carried out next to the consumer premises, or where consumers need to interact in person: these include public services like healthcare, justice and schools or services like construction or maintenance of facilities, public transport, tourism and food.
automated marking: bad for essays?
when government deprives individuals of fundamental rights, individuals are owed notice and a chance to be heard to contest those decisions.
for the ﬁrst time in humanity’s history, it is possible to create autonomous systems capable of carrying out complex tasks that were once believed to be the sole domain of natural intelligence: processing large quantities of information, calculating and predicting, learning and adapting responses to changing situations, recognizing and classifying objects.
underscoring that point, princeton university’s peter singer lists various ethical dilemmas that are already confronting ai developers, and which have no clear solution.
created by the organizations that receive federal funding to pursue ai research and development, the site is designed to “showcase canada’s leadership in the field of artificial intelligence.”
 establish a centre of excellence where data management professionals can share knowledge, best practices and develop standards for interoperability and data sharing.
government actors are aware that combining datasets makes it easier to de- identify anonymized data (montjoye & kendall, 2014), and are concerned about creating a single repository of highly sensitive data that could conceivably be subject to public records requests.
the question of whether justice should be delivered by means of ai can only be fully answered by the public.
canadian academics such as geoffrey hinton and yoshua bengio essentially created the field of deep learning and put canada on the map; today, edmonton, toronto and montreal are globally important centres of ai research.
the access to large scale, high quality data is central for improving ai outcomes and offerings.
this was the first thing we suspected as well, but it we quickly crossed it off the list: the training data included a wide range of people of all races and colors.
this domain has high potential for ai use, although problems can be complex and developing the right ai solutions may take time.
an example of a “grey area” in this domain concerns one of the most common fears that people report — public speaking.
the opioid crisis also illustrates how public health and criminal justice issues continue to interact: within three paragraphs of one political speech, us presi- dent trump lauded an initiative that caused people to turn in more than 900,000 pounds of unused or expired prescription drugs, and the arrest of criminal aliens with 76,000 charges and convictions for dan- gerous drug crimes.15
program areas at the optimized stage are well integrated at the enterprise level with data being discoverable and accessible.
further, as pointed out by ryan and kossek (2008: 299) in their discussion of work–life balance policies designed to promote inclusion, “a lack of supervi- sor support can lead to nonwork roles serving as barriers to full contributions and engage- ment and to nonsupported employees feeling excluded.”
though some data is being shared within program areas, the vast majority of data assets still remained confined to their silos.
vulnerable parts of the population will need protection in the process of granting access, especially given the asymmetry of power between an individual and entities.
“robots for humanity: using assistive robotics to empower people with disabilities.” ieee robotics and automation magazine 20, no.
it aims to derive the mutual benefit, just like in a land society, but members of a land society were voluntary participants.
cybersecurity administration, and database and business intelligence administration.
the system as it can from human errors in judgment when interpreting or acting on the outputs.33 evaluating a risk assessment tool, for instance, is not just a matter of understanding the math behind an algorithm; we must understand how judges, police o cers, and other decision-makers in uence its inputs and interpret its outputs.34
in a kaggle competition, this solution outperformed all non–deep learning solutions to win  rst place, increasing the ef ciency of electronic taxi dispatching systems and helping optimize public transport.20
the biggest challenges of ai often start when writing it makes us have to be very explicit about our goals, in a way that almost nothing else does — and sometimes, we don’t want to be that honest with ourselves.
based on the user’s biological reactions (pupil dilation, body temperature, emotional reaction), whether positive or negative, to that very same advertising, using information about our being to in-form (and re-form) our being?
we should therefore not underestimate the risks attached to deployment of ai tools as far as working conditions are concerned (loss of autonomy, work intensification, etc.
however, broader fairness systems are also likely to be noted by those traditionally in the majority (e.g., men and caucasians), who may have concerns pertaining to “reverse discrimination” (heilman, block, & lucas, 1992; morrison, 1992).
in order to establish mutually beneficial connections in addressing globally diverse traditions, it is of critical import to first properly distinguish between subtleties in western ethics (as a discipline) and morality (as its
car manufacturers and policymakers are currently struggling with these moral dilemmas, in large part because they cannot be solved by any simple normative ethical principles such as asimov’s laws of robotics4.
design for operator intervention must be sensitive to human factors and intended to increase, rather than decrease, situational awareness.
we believe this is far preferable to having only a few companies control the future of ai.
this requires that organizations have appropriate policies and agreements in place, that terms and conditions of the agreements are clearly communicated with the data object and that data misuse cases and legitimate use cases are well-defined in advance.
as any data that can be reasonably linked to an individual based on their unique physical, digital, or virtual identity.
force use of personal data when alternatives such as personal guardians, personal agents, law-enforcement-restricted registries, and other designs that are not dependent on loss of agency are available.
there is evidence that a mental health aide chatbot could improve individual self esteem and ultimately reduce self harm, but there is little evidence supporting claims that this would improve society directly or indirectly.
the nhs recognises the principle of patient ownership of data, but in practice it balances that with the wider “patient interest”.
while the social impact of adding ai to the mix of solutions targeting the world’s most pressing challenges is potentially very large, some ai-specific bottlenecks will need to be overcome if even some of that potential is to be realized.
be expressed as a goal, or as a set of rules, or as a set of values, or as a set of preferences, and those can be combined as well, using established methodologies from intelligent systems engineering.
although self-improving algorithms and data analytics can enable the automation of decision- making impacting citizens, legal requirements mandate transparency, participation, and accuracy, including the following objectives:
nell watson,artificial intelligence & robotics faculty, singularity university
an approach that is most likely to engender trust with users and those affected by these systems is to provide explanations that include contextual information about how an ai system works and interacts with data.
i see no risk if ai entities are guaranteed to be teaching slave to human beings and that human beings always supervise and decide if ai entities make sense of not.
of ethics that could guide the profession of data science as it grows and evolves, and immediately help organizations shape their
critical to digital society from iot, privacy, and cybersecurity to issues of internet governance.
when it comes to the ultimate mission of emerj, few tasks are more relevant than sparking moral discourse around the directions our technologies might be taking us.
this can make it di cult for records o cers responding in good faith to understand the requests, let alone provide the answers the public needs.
data transparency and sharing will enable the public service to gather insights from data that they may otherwise not have access to.
to surface relevant recommendations that led to a 5 percent increase in its “related pin” engagement, a funnel to money-making features such as direct advertising and monetizable pins.19 a third example is the use of trip data to train structured deep learning systems that predict taxi trajectories.
while i am confident that society will be much better as a result of technology, the social and economic implications of the transition are staggering for the unaware or unprepared.
while compliance asks if a company can act in a certain way, the role of an ethics function is to ask whether a company should act in a certain way.
most individuals believe controlling their personal data only happens on the sites or social networks to which they belong, and have no idea of the consequences of how that data may be used
more broadly, ai will enable humans to harness vast amounts
we wish to complement this work by reaffirming the role of human rights law and standards in protecting individuals and groups from discrimination and non-equality in any context.
if authorized by the person, individual ai could reply to emails for us, but it would make sense that it is stated in the email that it is an individual ai’s communication.
• prioritizing human well-being in the age of artificial intelligence (video)
first, data science methods were not only the sub- ject of the “data science for ...” venue, but also of many contributions to the “ai for ...” venues (solely or, for example, in combination with computer vision in the ai and satellite imagery track of the ai for good global summit).
new norms form when technological innovation demands novel social standards (e.g., cell phone use in public), and norms can fade away when, for whatever reasons, fewer and fewer people adhere to them.
as the founder of datakind, an organization that matches volunteer data analysts with social change organizations, put it in an interview with wired magazine, “non-profits don't know what they don't know ... they don't know what's even possible with data” (medeiros, 2013).
this is most valuable when the choices have high stakes, but the factors which really affect long-term outcomes aren’t immediately obvious to the humans in the field.
an important use for these loyal personal ai agents would be to help its owner to keep pace with the growing influx of requests to share information.
not providing clear consent (regarding personal data usage) decreases mental and emotional well-being.
the principles and recommendations that we are asking you to develop collectively are ethical guidelines for the development of artificial intelligence.
even the rudimentary versions of synthetic emotions already deployed in some systems impact how they are perceived by policy makers and the general public.
the system’s resolution of norm conflicts must be transparent — that is, documented by the system and ready to be made available to relevant users.
is it acceptable to entrust a vulnerable person to the care of ai?
i believe that it is crucial to have “principles” that can be “measured against” meaningfully.
aaai, (the association for the advancement of artificial intelligence) the world’s largest global body dedicated to the advancement of artificial intelligence had a special track on computational sustainability at their 2017 conference.
if you have access to a journal via a society or association membership, please browse to your society journal, select an article to view, and follow the instructions in this box.
all countries, and the international community, need to activate ambitious investment plans to play an active role in the development of the ai discipline.
to satellite data during emergencies such as the september 2018 tsunami in indonesia and hurricane michael, which hit the us east coast in october 2018.54 other data sharing initiatives with private companies are also being worked on, including opal, an open
as fixed hierarchies because the priorities are themselves context specific or may arise from net moral costs and benefits of the particular case at hand.
they concluded that “recent developments in machine learning will put a substantial share of employment, across a wide range of occupations, at risk in the near future.” subsequent studies put the equivalent figure at 35% of the workforce for britain (where more people work in creative fields less susceptible to automation) and 49% for japan.
we have identified principles created by our committee as well as aggregated principles reflected from other committees of the ieee global initiative.
33% of canadians don’t think they will be using them in the foreseeable future for work life
published by crown, an imprint of the crown publishing group, a division of penguin random house llc, on sept. 11.why germans will be left behind in artificial intelligence
the computer era has required us to grapple with important questions about privacy, safety, security, fairness, inclusion, and the importance and value of human labor.
the framework for accountability and liability for harm done by ai is still evolving.
mydata — a nordic model for human- centered personal data management
it’s usually easy to see results from a pilot on a small scale, but the real test begins when a solution or product needs to be scaled into a full production deployment.35 canada’s early adopters are still very much in the experimentation phase with ai.
konstantinos karachalios, managing director of the ieee standards association and a member of the ieee management council.
for his study, mcclure used data from wave 2 of the chapman survey of american fears, an annual national random survey.
irina raicu is the director of the internet ethics program at the markkula center for applied ethics; she is a certified information privacy professional (u.s.) and was formerly an attorney in private practice.
6. to reduce the risk of a/is that are unreasonably dangerous or that violate the law from being marketed and produced,
we excel in designing products to operate smoothly, yet often neglect to consider how they might cease operation in the case of a failure and what can and should be done then to ensure users’ safety.
making use of a nudge might be considered appropriate in situations like teaching children, treating drug dependency, healthcare, and when the global community benefits surpass individual benefits.
it is important that human workers within
thus, in this review, we first use brewer’s optimal distinctiveness theory (odt) to develop a definition of inclusion and then present a framework of inclusion that we use as a lens for reviewing the inclusion and diversity literatures.
even if these systems are personalized at scale by a/is, fundamental awareness and control need to be vested with an individual.
how do we make better user experience and consent education available to consumers as standard to express meaningful consent?
4) people must have extensive control over information regarding their preferences.
“in a sense, arti cial intelligence will be the ultimate tool because it will help us
i look forward to the continuation of the g7 canadian presidency.canada has a chance to monopolize the artificial intelligence industry
av 3.0 advances multi-modal safety, reduces policy uncertainty, and outlines a process for working with u.s. dot across a range of issues related to the safe integration of automation into the surface transportation system.
), this tool may be useful for assessing and improving the effectiveness of diversity management initiatives.
the panel, comprised of experts from academia, politics and industry, will ensure the adoption of the principles and further develop them in collaboration with the ai steering committee at sap, a group of sap executives from development, strategy and human resources.
in no event shall ieee or ieee-sa industry connections activity members be liable for any errors or omissions, direct or otherwise, however caused, arising in any way out of the use of this work, regardless of whether such damage was foreseeable.
through all human history, civilizations have created ways to explain the world around them—in the middle ages, religion; in the enlightenment, reason; in the 19th century, history; in the 20th century, ideology.
 develop codes of conduct and accountability mechanisms for licensed members, that account for members’ unique ability to have broad and rapid impacts on society through the development, procurement, deployment and use of ai systems.
an ethical standpoint and still be legal and safe in their usage following existing practices, but not contribute to human well-being.
when these differ, your ml model will become good at predicting the quantity you measured, not the quantity for which it was meant to be a proxy.
 one imt enterprise - the infrastructure being developed as part of the technology pillar will benefit all goa ministries.
how to strike the right balance between the values of novelty and accountability?
• phasing in personal privacy ais will mitigate risks while pre-empting reactive and disruptive legislation.
the goa will struggle to remain effective if it continues to operate in the traditional model of data collection, application focused it development and information delivery, and business processes that create barriers to sharing the data.
ian kerr (canada), chair– cifar ai & society council, professor– university of ottawa, and kentaro kotsuki (japan), director of policy research department– institute for information and communications policy, ministry of internal affairs and communications (japan) |
however, this goal raises many questions such as to whom the a/is are accountable and who has the right to correct the systems, or also which kind of a/is should be subject to accountability requirements.
artificial intelligence will in time bring extraordinary benefits to medical science, clean-energy provision, environmental issues, and many other areas.
there is no need to use the term artificial intelligence in order to conceptualize and speak of technologies and systems that are meant to extend our human intelligence or be used in robotics applications.
social inclusion of the world’s population, e.g.
“artificial intelligence and the ‘good society’:
greater understanding of data assets and information products will have the potential to reduce if not eradicate redundant costly data collection processes and reduce duplication of effort.
teams should work to minimize the extent to which beneficial outcomes from the system hinge on the virtuousness of the operators.
along with the modern concept of the android, which can be traced back to three sources — one, to its greek etymology that combines “άνδρας”: andras (man) and gynoids, “γυνή’’: gyni (woman); two, via automatons and toys as per u.s. patent developers in the 1800s, and three to japan, where both historical and technological foundations for android development have dominated the market since the 1970s — japanese shinto-influenced technology culture is perhaps the most authentic representation of the human-automaton interface.
this report focuses on new developments in four areas: labor and automation, bias and inclusion, rights and liberties, and ethics and governance.
while protecting privacy and security is important to all technology development, recent advances require that we pay even closer attention to these issues to create the levels of trust needed to realize the full bene ts of ai.
in addition, it is envisioned to integrate ai into government services, to revise the regulatory framework, to start standardisation initiatives and to engage in dialogue with society and continue the development of the framework for action.
disclaimer: while we have provided recommendations in this document, it should be understood these do not represent a position or the views of ieee but the informed opinions of committee members providing insights designed to provide expert directional guidance regarding a/is.
we do not have a complete understanding of what a human requires to be happy and healthy.
by increasing the diversity of our ideas and strengthening our common understanding, our community can have the greatest positive impact on the world.
the ethics of code: developing ai for business with five core principles
“meaningful human control, artifical intelligence and
these technology platforms, rendered easy to use by the smartphone, convene people, assets, and data—thus creating entirely new ways of consuming goods and services in the process.
they can help scientific discovery, generating a positive loop between new development and further growth.
different brains might well want to augment the world differently — for example, augmentation for emotional cueing of autistic persons.
of trust: would you buy a used car from this artificial agent?” ethics and information technology 13, (2011): 17–27.
it is by far the most common data type in the public- and social-sector management and infrastructure domains.
for honest design may also extend to higher- level capacities of artificial agents: if the agent introduces a certain topic into conversation, then it should also be able to, if asked, reason about that topic; if the agent displays signs of a certain human-like emotion, then it should have an internal state that corresponds to at least an analogue to that human emotion (e.g., inhabit the appraisal states that make up the emotion).
as the on-demand economy continues to grow, enterprises have an opportunity to shape policy within their own companies, at the industry level and from a public policy perspective.
in customer care, with technical skills being the purview of ai systems, interpersonal skills and dedication to customers, along with sale skills, are likely to see their importance increased.
approaches like the national domestic workers alliance’s “good work code” for domestic workers in the united states offer a framework for engaging workers that includes safety, shared prosperity, a living wage, inclusion and input.57 industry leaders should encourage discussions among businesses
and the first rule of programming computers is that they’re no good at self-deception: if you want them to do something, you have to actually explain to them what you want.
if researchers hadn’t noticed that the ai system had drawn a misleading inference, the system might have recommended against hospitalizing people with asthma, an outcome that would have run counter to what the data revealed.12 this highlights the critical role that people, particularly those with subject matter expertise, must play in observing and evaluating ai systems as they are developed and deployed.
 developing the american workforce to take full advantage of the benefits of ai.
organizations may also have dif culty interpreting ai model results.
for about one-third of the use cases in our library to date, we identified an actual ai deployment in some form (exhibit 2).
the algorithmic impact assessment (aia) framework proposed in this report is designed to support a ected communities and stakeholders as they seek to assess the claims made about these systems, and to determine where – or if – their use is acceptable.
human rights law provides both standards and mechanisms to hold the public and private sectors accountable where they fail to fulfil their respective obligations and responsibilities to protect and respect rights.
this prevents the creation of a digital footprint, including telecommunications and online social history, which are the data needed for this form of alternative credit scoring.
a growing community of computer scientists, journalists, social scientists, and engaged community advocates have already proven there is an appetite for research into public automated systems.
the declaration positively distinguishes itself from the morningside group’s paper, which fails to explicitly acknowledge the role of democracy and democratic institutions notwithstanding many references to the clear necessity of public input.
each panel shows spearman’s ρ and p value for the correlation test between the relevant pair of variables.
it provides principles, guidance and tools for companies to better articulate their long-term performance.
and as data is the new electricity in which companies increasingly put their faith to spur growth, defending their margins, consequences on data uses about individuals, or their proxies, are increasingly influencing our lives.
notes from the ai frontier applying ai for social good
a study by nishii (2010) showing that highly inclusive climates lowered relationship and task conflict in gender-diverse groups may point to the stress-reducing benefits of inclusion.
yet the ﬁrst threat of artiﬁcial intelligence development consists of giving the illusion that we can master the future through calculations.
one of the easiest ways to dip your feet into ai is to build a company chatbot and integrate it into your customer service process.
using artificial intelligence, the company will “help our community identify problems before they happen.” he says that facebook has “built infrastructure to show amber alerts,” that it has “built infrastructure to work with public safety organizations” and “built infrastructure like safety check so we can all let our friends know we’re safe and check on friends who might be affected by an attack or natural disaster.”
are upgrading our engineering systems to ensure that we satisfy data protection laws around the world, including the european union’s general data protection regulation (gdpr).
as increasingly sophisticated ai systems are created and deployed more widely, the effects on society are unclear.
so the community finds a stronger reflection of process relevant, but also finds it hard to translate these into concrete research prac- tices.
in an analysis of big data approaches to epi- demics in high-income vs. low-/middle-income coun- tries, the conception of populations as well-informed individuals versus as pathogen-carrying groups may imply that “big data models built to facilitate in- dividuals’ well-being and autonomy instead would constitute perfect tools for mass control and surveil- lance” [51, p. 30].
we emphasize another fundamental property of norms: their dynamically changing nature, which requires a/is to have the capacity to update their norms and learn new ones.
pii should be defined as the sovereign asset of the individual to be legally protected and prioritized universally in global, local, and digital implementations regardless of whether deemed to be de-identified in the way it
to establish accountability norms for ai, we should draw upon experience and practices in other areas, including healthcare and privacy.
it’s hard to discuss ai ethics without bringing up everybody’s favorite example: artificially intelligent killer drones.
a growing percentage of human activity will, within a measurable time period, be driven by ai algorithms.
to date, those who have gained the most from it have been consumers able to afford and access the digital world; technology has made possible new products and services that increase the efficiency and pleasure of our personal lives.
we devote a section to the analysis of the major limitations of present- day ai including the need of large amounts of annotated data, of massive computational power and the effort required to apply ai to each new problem/domain.
no matter how complex, ai or non-ai enabled computing machines should not have the right to interact with humans without prior requiring human consent.
autonomous and intelligent systems (a/is) are a part of our society.
as the unit of work shifts to task-based projects that use new agile team structures, the combination of alternative employment arrangements and distributed workers means enterprises need to reconsider how they engage employees, build teams, and support career
about one-third use cases in our library have been deployed in some form, leveraging ai capabilities.
this approach, would have a dual advantage for organization of the continuing training system, with regard to responsiveness in the face of technological changes as well as to financial cost20.
this isn’t because i think business people are cold and don’t care about ethics or moral concerns.
there is more we must do to support the news industry to make sure this vital social function is sustainable -- from growing local news, to developing formats best suited to mobile devices, to improving the range of business models news organizations rely on.
how ai is developed and used will have a significant impact on society for many years to come.
not only could basic income address poverty, precarious employment and job loss due to automation and globalization, it could level the playing field for women, says the ceo of c4media, an international software publishing and conference company.
delinquencies formerly restricted to adults are increasingly committed by young people and children … all child drug addicts, and all children drawn into the narcotics traffic as messengers, with whom we have had contact, were inveterate comic-book readers this kind of thing is not good mental nourishment for children!
note: data from the bureau of labor statistics.
while our research has so far not identi ed actual deployment of sdl for social good in the world today, our use case library suggests that it has considerable potential to be used for noncommercial purposes across a range of domains because tabular data exists in relative abundance in almost every domain.
ai could especially help address the needs of excluded or underserved people or groups (e.g.
however, there will be substantial interest from the fields of industry and military that would like to bring their solutions into the market respectively to the areas of conflict, and, in a different sense, of philosophy to solve some of the central questions.
this event is super interesting; it’s so enriching to be able to get the perspectives of people from different parts of the world, from different countries.
this, they said, was leading to a new era of production “which requires progressively less human labour” and threatened to divide society into a skilled elite and an unskilled underclass.
of social and telecom data.
currently, the norm is to cede our personal information and data to others.
researchers have begun to establish the importance of top management philosophy and values pertaining to diversity and equal employment opportunity (avery, mckay, wilson, & tonidandel, 2007; gelfand, nishii, raver, & schneider, 2005; ragins & cornwell, 2001; scheid, 2005; wasserman et al., 2008).
data ethics is an engineering challenge worthy of the best minds in the  eld.
however, while society is better off on average, innovation has also produced both winners and losers, opportunity and risk, migration and displacement.
in other words, because courts have recognized that it is good public policy to encourage companies to fix dangerous design flaws, retroactively fixing a design flaw that has caused injury is not considered an admission or a sign of culpability.
that woman was good, but she felt different... she wouldn’t fit as well working with me.”)
data intelligence has the potential to identify cost savings and opportunities to increase efficiency within the government, which will yield increases in productivity.
every secondary school student should be studying the implications of ai–it’s the most important change force that will shape their careers, social networks, and communities.
remember that ai may change business processes significantly and even create entirely new business models.
 related potential risks to consider and mitigate: data and model bias, data privacy violations, unsafe use of solution, inability to meet explainability level required.
the impact ai applications stand to have on both consumer and business operations is profound.
well-being metrics, in the form of triple-bottom line benefits (“people, planet, and profit”) for the corporate world, and in the form of tools
barriers to access would also mean that individuals would not be able to correct erroneous information or provide the most relevant information regarding their lives to trusted actors.
she acknowledged that the collection of dna data is rife with ethical considerations, but said, “i think it has to be our management and leaders who have to add this to our skill set, rather than just hire one person to determine this.”
“evaluating the structure of human values with confirmatory factor analysis.” journal of research in personality 38 (2004): 230–255.
because the primary objective of this study was to establish content validity, which is the minimum psychometric requirement for measurement adequacy (schriesheim, powers, scandura, gardiner, & lankau, 1993), the results should not be taken as providing con- clusive evidence for the existence of a particular set of dimensions of diver-
in a social impact domain identi ed, with measurable objective and requirements for success.
32 aaron reike, miranda bogen and david g. robinson, public scrutiny of automated decisions: early lessons and emerging methods, (upturn and omidyar network, 2018), https://www.omidyar.com/insights/public-scrutiny- automated-decisions-early-lessons-and-emerging-methods; april glaser, “who trained your a.i.,” slate, oct. 24, 2017, http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/technology/2017/10/what_happens_when_the_data_used_to_ train_a_i_is_biased_and_old.html.
arguably, without an understanding of the processes and algorithms we use in current and future forms of city governance, we (citizens, civil society and government) will remain simple, disempowered end-users of software.
21 rob matheson, “arti cial intelligence model ‘learns’ from patient data to make cancer treatment less toxic,” mit news, august 9, 2018, news.mit.edu/2018/arti cial-intelligence-model-learns-patient-data-cancer- treatment-less-toxic-0810.
as a result, risk scores from ai would continue to perpetuate this bias.
data ethics is still new and it requires critical thinking.
according to a survey by cowen and company, 81 percent of it leaders are currently investing in or planning to invest in ai, as cios have mandated that their companies need to integrate ai into their entire technology stacks.
placing a high priority on explaining different points of view so that all employees could learn from one another (suggestive of uniqueness) and feeling valued and respected by col- leagues (suggestive of belongingness; ely & thomas, 2001).
[7] w. hussain, the common good.
the use of an ai-based sentencing solution containing biased data could have a life-changing impact on individuals.
better management of data would contribute to reduced effort and increased efficiency across the government.
two major forces have come together: the commercial imperative to give customers what they want, and the desire of customers to
this example is particularly exciting as it shows capabilities still in development being applied to social good use cases; reducing chemotherapy doses helps improve quality of life of cancer patients and reduce the cost of their treatment.
the main ques on for the responsible data scien st appears to follow from the observa on that the re- moval of taxi iden  ers “would adverse- ly impact certain types of analysis on the data” (douriez et al., 2016, p. 148) and the need to  nd di erent analysis types.
even when these  elds involve human lives.15 as a result, most professionals trained in the parent  elds of data science do not encounter the primary research norms and regulatory apparatuses that guide other science and engineering  elds.
for example, data protection impact assessments (dpias), like those mandated under europe’s general data protection regulation, similarly serve to highlight the data protection risks of automated systems used to evaluate people based on their personal data.22 if a data controller  nds
to inadvertent violation of human rights.
positive, negative, and unpredictable impacts of accessing and collecting data should be made explicitly known to an individual to provide meaningful consent ahead of collection.
a/is increases the impact of risks such as hacking, the misuse of personal data, “gaming,” or exploitation (e.g., of vulnerable users by unscrupulous parties).
deliberately constructed emotions are designed to create empathy between humans and artifacts, which may be useful or even essential for human-ai collaboration.
article 1 talks of human dignity being inviolable, articles 7 and 8 respectively talk of the respect for private and family life as well as protection of personal data.
on the fairness, security, transparency, understandability, privacy, and societal impacts of a/is and that incorporates independent means to properly vet, audit, and assign accountability to the a/is applications.
in fact, absent clearly useful information, humans may easily act on their unconscious biases, rather than on real data.
however, this does not mean that the effects of ai will not be significant and that we will work tomorrow as we do today.
mr. zuckerberg, in other words, is not promoting real social infrastructure, but a communications system that makes it harder for most of us to be fully present and engaged with the people we’re spending time with in real life.
7. government and industry groups should consider establishing standards that require a/is to create logs (or other means of verification of their decision-making process) regarding key aspects of their operations and store those logs for a specified period of time.
should develop, share, and contribute to transparency and debugging tools that make the behavior of advanced a/is easier to understand and work with; and teams should perform the necessary theoretical research to understand how and why a system
our industry has a significant role to play in financing a more sustainable future, and our commitment to investing for a better tomorrow is an integral part of our purpose.”
“networks of social and moral norms in human and robot agents,” in a world with robots: international conference on robot ethics: icre 2015, edited by m. i. aldinhas ferreira, j. silva sequeira, m. o. tokhi, e. e. kadar, and g. s. virk, 3–17.
“standards for the ethical conduct of social experiments involving humans have evolved significantly in recent years,” says university of manitoba health economist evelyn forget in an open letter to premier doug ford and social services minister lisa macleod.
people must not be “trained” to push buttons to control unknown actions, no matter whether the buttons are mechanical or appear on a touch screen.
using this tool, the retail kiosk robot scores are mildly beneficial in the category of individual direct (i.e., reduced barriers to goal attainment) and environmental direct (i.e., use of resources), while strongly beneficial in social direct (i.e., better access to mental health support), but mildly unbeneficial in environment indirect (i.e., carbon footprint), and unknown in social indirect (i.e., job loss) categories.
it also raises new questions for ethical and legal practices of all orders of government, business, and civil society.
what people are good at, it turns out, isn’t explaining how they made decisions: it’s coming up with a reasonable-sounding explanation for their decision after the fact.
although its inception is hard to pin point exactly, the so-called “10 year challenge” or “how hard did aging hit you” or “glow up challenge” meme appears to have started picking up steam shortly after the new year.
justification, for why these criteria are relevant and why they are appropriate (legally and socially).
promoting objective (but context & culture-dependent) conditions of human flourishing respecting the dignity of others and the duties created in our relationships to them living as a person of integrity and principle
these questions can be used as provocations: inter- ruptions of the flow of everyday practices designed to “initiate critical reflection [...] on issues that are often otherwise overlooked, obscured or accepted as naturalised practice” [1, p. 225], see [2] for the use of provocations to encourage reflection on big data.
4) it is crucial to empower citizens regarding digital technologies by ensuring access to the relevant forms of knowledge, promoting the learning of fundamental skills (digital and media literacy), and fostering the development of critical thinking.
for the majority of people around the world, the debate is not about the quality of public discourse but whether they have access to basic information they need at all, often related to health, education and jobs.
a skillful practice of moral perception, sensitivity, and flexible, discerning judgment learning to more expertly  see a  nd n  avigate  the moral world and its features
although today’s state-of-the-art a/is do not match humans in this capacity (since today’s systems are only capable of performing well in limited and narrow environments or domains), many independent researchers and organizations are working on creating agi systems (including leading ai labs like deepmind, openai, microsoft, and facebook’s fair), and most ai experts expect a/is to surpass human-level intelligence sometime this century (grace et al.
there might be an advantage to agencies and the public in separating the de nition of automated decision systems and the disclosure of systems before moving on to discuss internal assessments and external researcher access protocols.
2. shared benefits: the economic growth resulting from ai development could lead
to operate within a clear set of parameters under expected performance conditions, and that there is a way to verify that they are behaving as intended under actual operating conditions.
many companies are beginning to offer ai self-service tools that have become both easier to use for the non-data scientist and less expensive to acquire.
for example, kuziemski argues that, “empowering all people in the age of ai will require each individual – not major companies – to own the data they create.” hernando de soto of the institute of liberty and democracy adds the corollary that ensuring equal access to data for all people will be no less important.
overcoming the shortage of talent able to manage ai implementations will likely require government and educational providers to work with companies and social-sector organizations to develop more free or low-cost online training courses.
as computers began to appear in offices and robots on factory floors, president john f. kennedy declared that the major domestic challenge of the 1960s was to “maintain full employment at a time when automation…is replacing men”.
at ai4all; james hodson at ai for good foundation; tom fairburn and ben wylie at the baobab network; paul duan at bayes impact; amy guggenheim shenkan at common sense media; dean ramayya krishnan at carnegie mellon university; jake porway at datakind; paul van der boor and rayid ghani at data science
yet if you give people an explanation tool, they’ll also demand the right to change it in the same language — reasonably, but not feasibly.
researchers at the university of heidelberg and stanford university have created a disease detection ai system, using visual diagnosis of natural images such as images of skin lesions to determine if they are cancerous; the system outperformed professional dermatologists.11 ai-enabled wearable devices, which can already detect potential early signs of diabetes through heart rate sensor data with 85 percent accuracy, could potentially help more than
“never until now did human invention devise such expedients for dispensing with the labour of the poor,” said a pamphlet at the time.
please help build momentum by emailing the principles link, futureoflife.org/ai-principles, to whoever you think may be interested in joining you as a signatory, and to mailing lists to which you belong!
it is by no means guaranteed that this transformation will be a positive one without a concerted effort by the a/is community to shape it that way (bostrom 2014, yudkowsky 2008).
a sequential chi-square difference test (h2), which is intended to assess changes in fit associated with models that have a nested or hierarchical relationship (loehlin, 1992), was used to compare the three-factor model from study 2 to the alternative models.
this means that when we discuss ethical issues of autonomous and intelligent systems we should consider all three traditional economic dimensions that evolved in modernity into an individual morality disconnected from economics and politics.
despite this move from diversity to inclusion in the practitioner literature, we have a limited understanding of whether it represents a material change in organizational actions and outcomes, or simply a change of phrasing to reduce backlash against the same initiatives (linnehan & konrad, 1999).
it is not obvious that judicial ai fails to meet those criteria — it is almost certainly the case that on some of the relevant measures, such as consistency, judicial ai might fare better than human adjudicators.
such questions are almost entirely handled by humans, rather than ai’s, because it’s extremely difficult to set down rules that even humans can use to judge these things.
for example, the u.k. recently launched three new institutions— the office for artificial intelligence, the centre for data ethics and innovation, and the ai council—that will draw in expertise from academia and industry to ensure the potential of ai is exploited in all key sectors.
thus, while plu- ral organizations may be characterized by a focus on employment profiles (i.e., workforce composition) and fair treatment, multicultural organizations may be characterized by policies and practices that facilitate the full utiliza- tion of human resources and enhance employees’ abilities to contribute to their maximum potential.
first, the companies and countries that will fare best in the ai era will be those that embrace these changes rapidly and effectively.
safety is a concern in social impact uses, just as it is in commercial use, for example with self-driving cars, since accidents can create ethical dilemmas
for technologies that could affect life and well-being, it will be important to have in place safety mechanisms that comply with existing laws and regulations.
in contrast to the typical interactions that people have.
the second is the possibility that rescue organisa ons may not want the full details of their opera ons to be publicly known, because they are facing opposi on and threats (a european far- right group threatening to a ack rescue vessels is men oned).
this challenge exists in other impact assessment processes because it requires the agency to make assumptions or predictions about cultural or social factors that vary enormously within and between communities
instead of burying communications about data in the terms of service, organizations must address trade-offs head on, explain the value of data partnerships, develop processes for data quality assurance across partners, be transparent about the use of ai interfaces, and equip front-line employees with the relevant training, content and communications.
an explanation concerning a speci c automated decision could prove useful in some situations, many systems may require a group-level or community-wide analysis.
for example, in cities in china where air pollution is so prevalent that the air is unhealthy, a few schools have covered “outdoor” fields with domes full of purified air while most children must risk their lungs when playing outside, or play indoors.
for example, if your goal is “tighten all the nuts on this car wheel to 100 foot-pounds,” all you need is a mechanism that can tighten and measure torque, and stops tightening when the torque reaches 100. this is called a “torque wrench,” and if someone offers you an artificially intelligent torque wrench the correct first question to ask them is why would i want that.
there is no ‘silver bullet’ here; creating technologies that will promote human flourishing and sustainable life on this planet is hard and uncertain work, involving difficult tradeoffs, some inevitable failures, and challenges that defy simple and stable solutions.
be clear about positive impact
if machines engage in human communities as quasi-autonomous agents, then those agents will be expected to follow the community’s social and moral norms.
these tools may be branded, and even sold, under that catch-all name of artificial intelligence and packaged in smart city solutions such as the nvidia metropolis platform.
combining unmatched experience and specialized skills across more than 40 industries and all business functions—underpinned by the world’s largest delivery network— accenture works at the intersection of business and technology to help clients improve their performance and create sustainable value for their stakeholders.
these two negative impacts could occur if a company produces an mr approach without sufficient validation and over-promotes or markets it to the public as a test or a cure.
to meet this goal, the committee has drawn from classical ethics theories as well as from the disciplines of machine ethics, information ethics, and technology ethics.
not all organizations looking to do something similar would have access to the high- level ai expertise that could develop the model, and even if they do, they may not have long-term support to refresh (or customize), troubleshoot, and improve on the model over time.
the measure in- cluded in this study may also serve as an assessment tool for understanding the degree to which employees perceive specific attributes to be representa- tive of their business unit or organization.
the public will have less insight into how agencies function, and have less power to question or appeal decisions.
this work is independent, reflects our own views, and has not been commissioned by any business, government, or other institution.
as “an intellect that is much smarter than the best human brains in practically every field, including scientific creativity, general wisdom and social skills” (bostrom 2014), passing some threshold of generality, well-roundedness, and versatility that present-day ai systems do not yet achieve.
extensive use of artificial intelligence in society may make our organizations more brittle by reducing human autonomy within organizations, and
one example of an ai business solution is customer care intelligence, currently being used by the department of human services (dhs) in australia to transform how it delivers services to citizens.
in the context of machine ethics, the traditional model may mean that a machine needs to acquire virtues such as wisdom, justice, courage and temperance, and develops a character which includes a set of them.
as we consider potential development and uses of ai technologies, we will take into account a broad range of social and economic factors, and will proceed where we believe that the overall likely benelts substantially exceed the foreseeable risks and downsides.
• donaldson, t. “values in tension: ethics away from home.” harvard business review.
developing, recruiting and retaining analytical talent will be a critical issue as data analytics begins to gain more prominence within the government.
these codes seldom recognize, though, that humans experience inner conflict, interpersonal disagreements, and cultural dissimilarities in the moral domain30,31,32.
1. open data raised the awareness for the potential of the data for citizens to derive value, improve transparency and accountability, and derive economic opportunity;
if there’s a core principle in mr. zuckerberg’s worldview, it’s that human beings make progress when we break down social and geographic divisions and form larger, more expansive moral communities.
the reason is straightforward: ai will be useful wherever intelligence is useful, helping us to be more productive in nearly every  eld of human endeavor and leading to economic growth.
writing a novel might be an example of this, since there isn’t a clear answer to what makes something a “good novel.” on the other hand, there are specific parts of that problem where goals could be defined — for example, “write a novel which will sell well if marketed as horror.”
susan liautaud, lecturer in public policy and law, stanford & founder; managing director, susan liautaud & associates limited (slal)
in short, human rights should be part of the ethical risk assessment
the study by benhamou “the future of work in 2030”16 emphasizes that the job market will require individuals to be highly adaptable and highly autonomous.
the philosophical considerations about the common good that have been summarized very briefly in the previous section served as starting points for the questions proposed in section 4. here, i will give an overview of the link between the considerations and questions.
• government and industry stakeholders should identify the types of decisions and operations that should never be delegated to such systems and adopt rules and standards that ensure effective human control over those decisions and how to allocate legal responsibility for harm caused by them
the challenge will come when deciding on how to retrain and redistribute employees whose jobs have been automated or augmented.
first, we observe that higher country-level economic inequality (as indexed by the country’s gini coefficient) corresponds to how unequally characters of different social status are treated.
and automation society committee on robot ethics, the ieee robotics and automation society, the ieee society on social implications of technology, the ieee computer society, the ieee computational intelligence society, the ieee systems, man and cybernetics society, the ieee symbiotic autonomous systems initiative.
identity: name, social insurance (social security) number
the potential for ai to provoke a backlash will be particularly acute in public services, where robots might manage our personal records or interact with children, the elderly, the sick, or socially marginalized groups.
walmart stores inc., for example, acknowledges that its efforts for digital transformation are being pulled by customer expectations, not driven purely by executive initiatives.
in autonomous systems, it is recommended that the discussion first consider free will, civil liberty, and society from a millian perspective in order to better grasp definitions of autonomy and to combat general assumptions of anthropomorphism in a/is.
as it becomes more feasible and more commonplace for universities to serve as intermediaries between government agencies and commercial interests, we’ll have to consider closely what the appropriate boundaries of those relationships should be.
the populations about what will happen with their data in general, and what might happen if it is shared openly; there is often lack of clarity around how these decisions are currently being made and by whom.
these in- clude culturally-grounded restrictions on imparting knowledge [57] as well as “the right to not know” in bioethics.
ethical preparedness for ai starts upstream, cultivating ethics in the culture of the organization, empowering people to do the right thing, and addressing issues with transparency, even if other corporate pressures may run counter.
this is an important time in the development of our global community, and it's a time when many of us around the world are reflecting on how we can have the most positive impact.
this suggests we need to evolve towards a system of personal control over our experience.
• ensuring meaningful human control of weapons systems
• scherer, m. “who’s to blame (part 4): who’s to blame if an autonomous weapon breaks the law?” law and ai, february 24, 2016.
when opposing autonomous weapons interact with each other, conflict might escalate without explicit human military or political decisions, and escalate more quickly than humans on either side will be able to understand or act.
this information is particularly useful when it’s also provided as an axis for providing feedback to ml systems: for example, by showing people a few salient and mutable items, they may offer corrections to those items, and provide updated data.
douglas m. baker, jr., ecolab’s chairman and chief executive officer: “ecolab supports the embankment project for inclusive capitalism (epic) and its focus on fostering long-term value and sustainable economic growth.
vinod kumar of tata communications explains that ai has the power to remould and better develop countries from within, by allowing tech talent to thrive: “in india, the private sector has created 4,200 ai start-ups that ‘are redefining business models in technology for healthcare,
however, they do not have a clear terminology and guidelines for judging and addressing those implications.
“toward a comparative theory of agents.” ai & society 27, no.
this paper provides an analysis of more than 400 use cases across 19 industries and nine business functions and highlights the broad use and significant economic potential of advanced ai techniques.
the  rst is a refer- ence to concerns over port security as a consequence of ais data being publicly available.
these principles have been widely referenced and endorsed by corporations and led to the adoption of several corporate social responsibility (csr) policies in various companies.
• uport is an open source software project to establish a global, unified, sovereign identity system for people, businesses, organizations, devices, and bots.
the term artificial intelligence (ai)
governments and other multi-stakeholder groups at the national, regional and municipal levels are declaring principles that will guide various aspects of ai development, procurement and use.23 additionally, a number of private organizations have introduced principles-based frameworks for the responsible adoption of ai.
using a more indirect path, mor barak et al.’s (2006) study on child welfare workers suggested that inclusiveness was related to job satisfaction, which, in turn, was related to turnover intentions.
our progress and the ongoing positive influence of this work is due to the volunteer experts serving on our committees and ieee p7000tm standards working groups, along with the ieee staff who support our efforts.
2) the decisions made by ais affecting a person’s life, quality of life, or reputation should always be justiﬁable in a language that is understood by the people who use them or who are subjected to the consequences of their use.
profiles protect personal information: an individual’s personal data stored in their profiles is their private property.
however, more work is needed to develop a fully articulated, robust and global ai accountability regime.
“moral decision-making in autonomous systems: enforcement, moral emotions, dignity, trust and deception,” proceedings of the ieee 100, no.
companies must acknowledge the impact of the on- demand model on workers rather than claim that they are “just the technology platform.” companies that do not acknowledge the importance of worker protections and bene ts risk damage to their brands and face the possibility that lawmakers and the courts will step in to impose regulations that could limit the business opportunities
thus, in theory, the decision responsibility is entirely on the shoulders of the officers, and the clear demarcation of areas of responsibility between officers based on rank, area of command, and so on, determines who is ultimately responsible for any given order.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 3
we are very happy and proud that our independent ethical advisor prof. be na berendt accepted our invita on to prepare a very s mula ng ar cle expressing her vision about the need of ethical considera on in data science for holis c trajectories.
and teaching of social and moral values, but rather about the application of fundamentals, frameworks, and explanations.
to educate the public about the social and cultural issues of a/is.
this procedure gave rise to 24 extended abstracts or arti- cles from the data science for social good confer- ence 201728, 4 articles from sogood 2017 [67], 15 arti- cles from the 2017 aaai spring symposium on ai for social good [68], and 56 presentation slide sets, ex- tended abstracts or articles from the 2nd ai for good global summit29.
much of the point of military discipline is to create a fighting force which does not try to think too autonomously during battle.
o in september 2017, u.s. dot released automated driving systems 2.0: a vision for safety, providing non-regulatory guidance to automated vehicle developers to enable the safe integration of driverless cars onto american roadways.
intelligent and autonomous technical systems are specifically designed to reduce human intervention in our day-to-day lives.
to understand the role of agency and control within a/is, it is critical to have a definition and scope of personally identifiable information (pii).
designers should leverage current computer science regarding accountability and verifiability for code.
to develop a/is capable of following social and moral norms, the first step is to identify the norms of the specific community in which the a/is are to be deployed and, in particular, norms relevant to the kinds of tasks that the a/is are designed to perform.
proceduralist notions of the common good rely on democratic structures and deliberation; it need not be known a priori which facilities and interests will be agreed upon through these processes, see [10].
for hands-on experience, the best place to start is often an introductory course in “data science”: the materials for data 8, at uc berkeley, are available online.
the foresight study was launched by stoa upon the request of the european parliament’s (ep) committee on legal affairs (juri) to provide evidence to the working group on legal questions related to the development of robotics, chaired by mep mady delvaux.
• the universal declaration of human rights, 1947.
data analytics is an emerging form of knowledge production that provides the ability to cheaply and easily connect and analyze datasets, often drawn from highly disparate contexts.2 the capacity to continually re-analyze and correlate data collected from a broad range of contexts has proven challenging to ethically conceptualize and regulate.3,4 in the past it could be assumed that data collected in one context—medical, political, genetic, social,  nancial, census, behavioral, geographic, etc—would stay in that context and could be regulated as
the industrial revolution gives an historical taste of this type of change, but given the depth and breadth of digital penetration into human life, it will be an even more profound sea change.
it is intended to be a working reference tool created in an inclusive process by those in the relevant scientific and engineering communities prioritizing ethical considerations in their work.
• rickli, j.-m. “artificial intelligence and the future of warfare” (box 3.2.1).
these principles support sap in refusing to compromise on data protection and privacy, and enable sap to be an active participant in the community that is engaged in resolving the wider societal challenges of ai.
there is likely to be opportunity to positively influence and enhance new norms via augmented/mixed reality if given a predictable environment to operate within and potential positive psychology impacts and overall wellness.
human rights law is sometimes conflated with human well-being, leading to a concern that a focus on human well-being will lead
the data science for social good (dssg) initia- tive has organized, since 2013, an annual “summer program for aspiring data scientists to work on data mining, machine learning, big data, and data science projects with social impact.
achieving real change for businesses and their investor stakeholders requires working across the industry’s value chain through initiatives like the embankment project for inclusive capitalism (epic).”
ai is sometimes framed as ‘a space race’ for the 21st century, but the major difference is that ai has the potential to benefit the whole humanity, in health, transportation, security, and environment.
there is a need to create value-based ethical culture and practices for the development and deployment of products based on autonomous and intelligent systems (a/is).
 establish and implement a goa analytics code of ethics that guides the responsible use of data
it is causing massive disruption, propelling many people forward but leaving many behind as well.
as an example, consider social network mining, which is currently a popular method also for studying drug usage, see for example [59].
1. providing ethics education and security awareness that sensitizes society to the potential risks of misuse of a/is (e.g.,
effective governance entails more than just the establishment of a framework, but must involve a rigorous approach that incorporates purpose, scope, structure, roles and responsibilities, processes and relations across the government.
any business consists of several tasks, some of which are “peripheral” or low added- value in nature, while others constitute the “heart” of the business and/or have high added-value.
• scherer, m. “regulating artificial intelligence systems: risks, challenges, competencies, and strategies.” harvard journal of law
it is good news that governments and policy organizations are increasingly paying attention to technology growth, impacts in society and technology disruption.
the indian government has employed satellite-based monitoring systems to understand the status of projects on a timely basis and detect where fund allocation is not effective.42
now more than ever, the mass automation of big data and ai call for a new business competency: a formalized and grounded approach to ethics.
it appears that, as a common denominator, the intended beneficiaries of ai for good, for social good, etc.
this does not mean that policymakers should necessarily go with public opinion and allow autonomous vehicles to preferentially spare children, or, for that matter, women over men, athletes over overweight persons, or executives over homeless persons—for all of which we see weaker but clear effects.
• consumption of goods and services (consumer and loyalty data)
but without it, dssg teams run the risk of developing products and services that have little chance of being embraced by stakeholders [.
how do we help people build a civically-engaged community in a world where participation in voting sometimes includes less than half our population?
as a last idea to deal with ai and rising inequalities, perhaps it would be preferable to tackle the issue closer to the source of the problem: capital ownership and the structure of the firm.
a/is have been recognized as key enablers for achieving the goals of humanitarian relief, human rights, and the united nations sustainable development goals.
one factor was concerned with employee involvement in work systems as well as learning and growth outcomes that may stem from diver- sity in organizations.
in particular, although there will be many cases where ai is less expensive, more predictable, and easier to control than human employees, we recommend maintaining
the evolution and growing complexity of global financial markets increasingly mean managing risk and capturing growth in sustainable ways, while also staying aligned with the interests of a diverse range of communities and people around the globe.
in non-dssg, purely academic data science collaborations we’ve observed, domain expertise is often contributed by a research partner with post-secondary education in a specific field who is working on a research question that is of interest within that field’s intellectual community.
[...] we knew we couldn’t make it illegal to be either against the war or black, but by getting the public to associate the hippies with marijuana and blacks with heroin, and then criminalizing both heavily, we could disrupt those communities.
these pillars include i) supporting the national ai r&d ecosystem ii) developing the american workforce to take full advantage of the benefits of ai iii) removing barriers to ai innovation in the united states, and iv) enabling high-impact, sector-specific applications of ai.
mocs, law, doi, dls, and other oversight agencies approve of contracts and related documents
in addition, they lower the barriers for businesses and individuals to create wealth, altering the personal and professional environments of workers.
we have seen them implemented in scienti c and policy domains as wide-ranging as environmental protection,12 human rights,13 data protection,14 and privacy.15 aias draw on these frameworks and combine them with growing and important research that scienti c and policy experts have been developing
such tasks would assess, for example, whether the a/is applies norms in discriminatory ways to different races, ethnicities, genders, ages, body shapes, or to people who use wheelchairs or prosthetics, and so on.
more than a third of the participants met the criteria of a “technophobe” and they reported being more fearful about losing their jobs due to automation compared to other anxiety-inducing situations like romantic rejection or public speaking, according to the press release.
in pursuit of these goals, microsoft and linkedin have partnered with skillful, an initiative of the markle foundation, that is creating a skills-based labor market that works for everyone, with a focus on those without a college degree.
on the other hand, the mutual depen- dencies between technology and society are an inte- gral part of the literature on socio-technical systems.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
the values construct.” personality and social psychology review 4 (2000): 255–277.
more specifically, diverse employee perspectives and approaches are incorporated into business pro- cesses to leverage the benefits of diversity to enhance organizational learning and growth.
23% of canadians will be using them in the next 10 to 20 years for personal use
but as a complement to the best parts of human nature—creativity, empathy, stewardship—it can also lift humanity into a new collective and moral consciousness based on a shared sense of destiny.
more fundamentally, however, the election and the subsequent congressional hearings with high-tech leaders revealed that the companies that manage large-scale, for-profit communications infrastructures are set up to prioritize generating revenue above delivering public goods.
this is guided by principles such as the asilomar principle 11) “human values: ai systems should be designed and operated so as to be compat- ible with ideals of human dignity, rights, freedoms, and cultural diversity.” arguably, these ideals are widely shared, codified for example in the universal declaration of human rights.12 thus, one may in- terpret the “widely shared ethical ideals” of principle 23) as consisting of these four, and possibly also oth- ers.
in other words, even if ethicists were to agree on how autonomous vehicles should solve moral dilemmas, their work would be useless if citizens were to disagree with their solution, and thus opt out of the future that autonomous vehicles promise in lieu of the status quo.
data subjects would pool their data forming a trust, stipulating conditions under which data could be shared.
to enable innovation and to protect workers, the public and private sectors must tackle a number of key policy questions.
the system may document its dynamic change and the user can consult this documentation as desired; in other cases, explicit announcements and requests for discussion may be appropriate; in yet other cases, the a/is may propose changes and the relevant human community will decide whether such changes should be implemented
for instance, where a companion robot outfitted to measure the emotion of seniors in assisted living situations might be launched with a typical “move fast and break things” technological manufacturing model, prioritizing largely fiscal metrics of success, these devices might fail in
this issue, to a large degree, relates to funding models as well as the traditional mono-function culture in a/is-related institutions and companies, which limit cross-pollination between disciplines (see below).
both focus on highlighting threats posed by artificial intelligence; what the common good is and how to use ai towards it is not explicated.
no single one entity, living or non-living (single human, country, ai, etc.
that means you can apply them to problems that humans are very bad at —  like ranking billions of web pages for a single search, or driving a car.
scale ai will protect jobs by providing canadian firms with a competitive edge in time to market, cost of delivery, supply chain security, and sustainability.
ai strategy, ieee-usa’s position statement on artificial intelligence research, development and regulation, the ieee global initiative’s prioritizing human well-being in the age of artificial intelligence.
thus, un- like for example in commercial application areas, no market price can serve as indicator of value.
the eu’s general data protection regulation (gdpr) provides measures to remedy the misuse of personal data.
test (an intelligence test for a computer that allows a human to distinguish human from artificial intelligence), there is a significant risk that unscrupulous operators will abuse the technology for unethical commercial, or outright criminal, purposes.
of anthropomorphic presumptions of ethics and moral rules for a/is.
this is low compared to other countries, but democracy is receding in many countries and there is a large opportunity across the world to encourage civic participation.
aggregate the parts of these codes that deal with the handling of data and use them as a minimum bar for your own code.
i am at the [[http://www.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/133.nsf/eng/home|g7 multistakeholder conference on artificial intelligence]] meeting at the o mile-ex complex in montreal.
therefore, work may not need to be outsourced where labor is cheaper, but rather to companies that can perform effectively and efficiently exploiting perhaps a highly specialized technological infrastructure.
we surveyed canadians by asking them: when it comes to ai-enhanced tools or devices, how do you project their usage in your personal and work life?
in the second study, an empirical investigation of the reliability and factor structure of the new measure supported a three-factor model.
 preparing a mechanism for stopping the use of ai immediately when damage is caused by the use has the effect of preventing the spread of damage and leads to improvement of the trust.
today’s ai enables faster and more profound progress in nearly every  eld of human endeavor, and it is essential to enabling the digital transformation that is at the heart of worldwide economic development.
the debate over the use of ai and algorithms goes beyond just the questions of control and accountability.
2. the existential approach (sören kierkegaard, jean-paul sartre) perhaps does not make sense for the machine ethics, because the existence of human beings is addressed.
• safety and beneficence of artificial general intelligence (agi) and artificial superintelligence (asi): malo bourgon and richard mallah
for example, liability may attach to the manufacturers or to the person who directs, monitors, and controls the a/is’s operations, or has the responsibility to do so.
these processes include access to information and resources, connectedness to supervisor and co-workers, and ability to participate in and influence the decision making process.” mor barak developed a theoretical model of inclusion in which she posed that diversity and organizational culture would contribute to perceptions of inclusion-exclusion, which would then lead to job satisfaction, organizational commitment, individual well- being, and task effectiveness.
the european ai alliance is open to anyone who is interested in discussing any aspect of ai and who would like to contribute to the work on the draft ai ethics guidelines and the policy and investment recommendations.
• expertise can be furthered by setting up technical fellowships, or rotation schemes, where technologists spend an extended time in political offices, or policy makers work with organizations that operate at the intersection of tech-policy, technical engineering, and advocacy (like the american civil liberties union, article 19, the center for democracy and technology, or privacy international).
if we connect with people about what we have in common -- sports teams, tv shows, interests -- it is easier to have dialogue about what we disagree on.
ai will be deployed in different ways depending on the domain, capability, barriers, and risk pro les of speci c use cases.
with current levels of technical understanding and expertise, policies and regulations may fail to support innovation, adhere to national principles, and protect public safety.
an anticipated challenge for governments performing algorithmic impact assessments is the assessment of potential cultural and social harms.
“regardless of the origin or intent behind this meme, we must all become savvier about the data we create and share, the access we grant to it, and the implications for its use,” o’neill warned.
“she basically pointed out that in a lot of complex social and technical systems, a reliance on these systems analysis approaches couldn’t always do the job,” dr. linstone said.
to measure the relative potential of ai we used usage frequency as a proxy (see box 1, “building a library of ai use cases for social good to understand comparative relevance of ai across domains”).
motivation becomes very important, because if a/is seek to detract from community it will be detrimental to the identity of this community, i.e., in terms of job losses, poverty, lack in education and skills training.
a day of panels that will bring together some 60 people to help shape the declaration;
development and is included in government business planning, performance measurement, and evaluation.
• the measurement of economic performance and social progress (2009) now commonly referred to as “the stiglitz report,” commissioned by the then president of
wellbeing metrics standard for ethical artificial intelligence and autonomous systems has been formed with the aim of identifying well-being metrics for applicability to a/is today and in the future.
broadly, we recommend that technical organizations promote a number of measures to help ensure that there is meaningful human control of weapons systems:
this cannot be done currently, a/is should be designed so that they always are able, when asked, to show the registered process which led to their actions to their human user, identify to the extent possible sources of uncertainty, and state any assumptions relied upon.
algorithmic impact assessments increase the internal capacity of public agencies to better understand and explicate potential impacts before systems are implemented.48 agencies must be experts on their own automated decision systems if they are to ensure public trust.
other countries have made ai a major national project.
legislation regarding personal data varies widely around the world.
in particular, the integration-and- learning perspective (also called the learning-and-effectiveness paradigm) involves ack- nowledging the differences among people and recognizing the value of those differences, which are reflective of the uniqueness theme in our definition of inclusion (ely & thomas, 2001; thomas & ely, 1996).
“personal data stores” (chapter 12), in data
rri is an umbrella concept that draws on classical ethics theory to provide tools to address ethical concerns from the outset of a project (design stage and onwards).
as analysis becomes more obfuscated via a/is, not even data controllers will necessarily know what or how conclusions are being drawn through the processing of personal data, or how those data are used in
in health, for example, ai-enabled wearable devices, which can already detect potential early signs of diabetes through heart rate sensor data with 85 percent accuracy, could potentially contribute to helping more than 400 million people af icted by the disease worldwide if made suf ciently affordable.
24 new york city is in the process of evaluating algorithmic accountability as of 2018, so its typical processes provide a useful model for considering frameworks (“about procurement,” nyc mayor’s o ce of contract services, accessed march 16, 2018, https://www1.nyc.gov/site/mocs/about/procurement.page).
as defined by classical ethics, reducing ethical thinking to the “morality” of a worldless and isolated machine (a mimic of the modern subject).
these data sets may contain highly con dential personal data that cannot be shared without being anonymized.
2.2 some questions regarding the common good, inspired by the notion from political philosophy
and when trying to think about all the ways in which different pictures could be identified as different objects — this ai isn’t just about faces— nobody thought to explain to it the long history of black people being dehumanized by being compared to apes.
— “deepmind created an iq test for a.i., and it didn’t do too well”, world economic forum
market participants have a role to ensure long-term value creation that benefits all.
autonomous systems designed to cause physical harm have additional ethical dimensions as compared to both traditional weapons and autonomous systems not designed to cause harm.
those programs can be private (sponsored by the employer) or public (offered freely through specific public channels and policies), and they should be open while the worker is in between jobs or still employed.
in choosing this formulation, the declaration invokes a culture of data sharing by default.
the massive amounts of data sc generate can create enormous business value by responding to a range of industrial needs (e.g., demand forecasting, product customization, sourcing, logistics, traceability, security).
an example is using ai to create solutions that help firefighters determine safe paths through burning buildings using data from iot devices.
3. intimate systems should not be designed in a way that contributes to user isolation from other human companions.
machine-learning and other tools have the ability to map out potential consequences with greater specificity and efficiency than humans.
on civil law rules on robotics.
ai and human rights - australia
it would understand just enough of your sentences to ask you to tell it more about various things, and if it got confused, it would fall back on safe questions like “tell me about your mother.” while it was half meant as a joke, people did report feeling better after talking to it.
• similar ideas are implicit in ieee ethically aligned design [5, p. 5]: the goal to “de- velop successful autonomous intelligent systems that will benefit society” and the second general principle, to “prioritize the maximum benefit to humanity and the natural environment.”
he envisions it generating new ways for people around the world to participate in collective governance, new ways to achieve openness, transparency and, more ambitiously, a renewed commitment to the common good.
competition authorities will need to carefully study the bene ts of price transparency as well as the risk that transparency could over time reduce price competition.
of producing anonymously processed information will be determined on a sector- by-sector basis because each sector has distinct constraints and purposes of personal information.
in china the state will find no shortage of people to work on its surveillance apparatus, which uses ai techniques in what may well be the world’s most sophisticated system for spying on a civilian population.
by providing specific steps, diagrams and checklists, users of this standard will be able to perform a requirements based conformity assessment on the specific privacy practices &/or mechanisms.
4 stephen buranyi, “‘dehumanising, impenetrable, frustrating’: the grim reality of job hunting in the age of ai,” the guardian, march 4, 2018, https://www.theguardian.com/inequality/2018/mar/04/dehumanising-impenetrable- frustrating-the-grim-reality-of-job-hunting-in-the-age-of-ai.
outcome: service delivery aligned with citizens’ needs that will facilitate improved interactions.
this also points to a weakness of ai suppliers in terms of raising awareness and proving the value and applicability of their offerings.
the notion of machine intelligence, exempli ed by alan turing’s quintessential test: a machine could be considered “intelligent” if a person interacting with it (by text in those days) could not tell whether it was a human or a computer.
4. agencies should solicit public comments to clarify concerns and answer outstanding questions; and
 consider a research ethics board or clinical trials style body for certain ai applications.
the eis process combines a focus on core values with a means for the public, outside experts, and policymakers to consider complex social and technical questions.
as such, ethics regarding professional conduct often implies moral issues such as integrity or the lack thereof (in the case of whistleblowing, for instance), but ethics in a/is design includes broader considerations about
specifically, both literatures pose that some demographic groups (e.g., women, racial minorities) have fewer opportunities to belong to valued groups, such as groups that tend to occupy higher level positions in the firm, due to their unique features relative to the individuals (e.g., caucasian men) who hold those positions (rosette, leonardelli, & phillips, 2008).
big data & society 1(2).
 related potential barriers to overcome: availability and accessibility of talent with high-level ai expertise as well as ai practitioners, access to technology for users, organization receptiveness, organization deployment efficiency,
nobel laureate economist robert shiller observes that while the idea has drawn derision in many circles, it deserves an airing, because there are undeniable “externalities to robotization that justify some government intervention.” moreover, there aren’t any obvious alternatives, given that “a more progressive income tax and a ‘basic income’” lack “widespread popular support.”
for example, the bbc’s “micro: bits campaign” made 90% of 11-year-old pupils feel “anyone can code” and 39% of girls (a jump of 16 percentage points) say they “would definitely do ict/computer science as a subject option in the future.”5 in the u.s., ai4all, a non-profit, works to increase diversity and inclusion in ai by supporting educative and mentorship programs that give underrepresented high school students early exposure to ai for social good6.
ai for the common good?
i think we can all agree that silicon valley needs more adult supervision right about now.
solutionism, in this ta- ble, is the assumption that a social problem (which usually resides on the right-hand side) is a problem on the left-hand side, coupled with the associated treatment of this problem.
we want to be clear that while we are not developing ai for use in weapons, we will continue our work with governments and the military in many other areas.
from preventing once-deadly diseases, to enabling people with disabilities to participate more fully in society, to creating more sustainable ways to use the earth’s scarce resources, ai promises a better future for all.
7 one example of ai being less biased than humans is in bail decisions; one paper has found that algorithmic decision making in bail decisions could reduce jail populations by 42 percent with no increase in crime rates.
in the current context of a/is technologies, and in the complex and multi-level or secondary uses of data, it is important to be clear about the boundaries of control for use of personal data that can affect an individual directly compared
automation activity bears the risk of job loss/displacement.
this new form of entertainment has gone far to blast maidenhood … depraved adults with candies and pennies beguile children with the inevitable result.
aws offer the potential for severe human rights abuses.
good regulation encourages innovation, and harmonizing policy internationally will reduce barriers to trade.
4.4.3 limits of imparting knowledge: is it good?
depending on the type of job and task, ai does not have the same impact.
to be relevant in the information economy, data needs to be treated as an asset and be able to move where needed in order to obtain the most value.
data subjects hold a range of expectations about the privacy and security of their data and those expectations are often context-dependent.
autonomous and intelligent systems (a/is) are developing faster than the supporting standards and regulation required for transparency and societal protections can keep pace.
4. hand gestures and other non-verbal interaction are very important for social interaction, but should be used with caution across cultures and should be acknowledged in the design of affective systems.
the future of artificial intelligence 23 microsoft’s approach to ai 34 the potential of modern ai - 44 addressing societal challenges
indeed, as outlined in the earlier discussion of bottlenecks, ai’s application for social good uses tends to be hampered by a shortage of personnel with the skills and technical know-how required.
transparency concerning how normative reasoning is approached in the implementation is important as we wish to verify that the normative decisions the system makes match the required norms and values.
such as the future of work, fairness, safety, security and social inclusion28.
some aspects of natural language processing, including sentiment analysis, language translation, and language understanding, also stand out as applicable to a wide range of domains and use cases.
this is a checklist for social-sector organizations thinking about deploying ai solutions, including for the first time.
as it advances, ai could allow us to consume ever more products and services from an expanding “freemium” economy based on network effects and “collective intelligence,” not unlike an open-source community.
“in times like these, the most important thing we at facebook can do is develop the social infrastructure to give people the power to build a global community that works for all of us,” he explained.
and soft ai systems that fall into the same category would include medical diagnosis ais (even if they are only ‘recommender’ systems), loan/mortgage application recommender systems, or ‘companion’ chatbots.
first, there is a theme of belongingness, as indicated by some key words and phrases in the above definitions such as “accepted,” “insider,” and “sense of belonging.” the second theme of uniqueness is indicated by key phrases such as “valuing contributions from all employees,” “contribute fully,” “individual talents,” and “to have their voices heard and appreciated.”
• asking for guidance from the community when uncertainty about applicable norms exceeds a critical threshold;
to cultivate skills that are uniquely human, and to weave ongoing education into full-time and on-demand work.
 identifying opportunities to use ai in growing the economy, improving public health, and building upon our national security.
there is natural concern that the rights of the individual are protected in the face of such opportunities.
international human rights law (ihrl) also guarantees, by way of international and bilateral treaties, rights to life, human dignity, fair trial, and further positive and negative human rights.
the use or increase of certain “well-being” measures as justification to violate human rights, as happens in countries that conduct ethnic cleansing or mistreat refugees or immigrants who are portrayed as threatening a nation’s culture or economic structure.
the workshop brought together researchers studying the social dimensions of technology—anthropologists, historians, sociologists, and experts in management studies—to put the fourth industrial revolution in broader sociocultural and historical contexts.
 ensure that autonomous systems are accountable to people that are affected by these systems.
more important, the results of kossek and zonia’s study highlight workforce composition and equality as components of employees’ diversity climate perceptions.
another important potential outcome of inclusion is career opportunities for diverse peo- ple.
legacy systems and incompatible standards and formats pose a challenge to data integration and the ability to perform analysis on the data.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 41
therefore, the german government will raise awareness with developers and users regarding ethical and legal questions of using ai.
“unique in the crowd: the privacy bounds of human mobility.” scientific reports 3, no.
even with a sample size as large as ours, we could not do justice to all of the complexity of autonomous vehicle dilemmas.
this ieee standards association (“ieee-sa”) industry connections publication (“work”) is not
3) the code for algorithms, whether public or private, must always be accessible to the relevant public authorities and stakeholders for veriﬁcation and control purposes.
these claims may well feel true to those who long for simpler, happier times – but there’s no good evidence that they’re accurate.
3. we should think about the eudemonistic model (aristotle) in the form of teleological ethics.
i hated him.”) it can also have deeper motivations: to resolve cognitive dissonance by explaining how we did or didn’t want something anyway (“the grapes were probably sour, anyway”), or to avoid thinking too closely about something we may not want to admit.
all of these questions will take on particular importance as ai systems become more useful and are more widely deployed.
8. ai model built and trained on available data set.
one of the biggest risks is that ai’s tools and techniques can be misused by authorities and others with access to them; malicious uses can harm individuals, organizations, and society at large.48 ai can be used maliciously to threaten the physical and emotional safety of individuals, as well as their digital safety, financial security, and equity and fair treatment.
4. a/is should be programmed so that, under certain high risk situations where human decision-making is involved, they proactively inform users of uncertainty even when not asked.
and it goes even further: the labor of manuscript writing was something for monks to do -- for there was no greater danger for the devout soul than idleness.
the buddhist perspective understands privacy as a protection, not of self-subsisting individuals, because such do not exist ultimately speaking, but a protection of certain values which are found to be necessary for a well-functioning society and one which
ate a type of holis c trajectories, manu- ally label them as represen ng (or not) a rescue opera on, and use clustering and machine learning with a view to classi-  ca on and predic on (the enriching data in this case include broadcast warn- ing data produced by wwnws, a global service managed by the un mari me organiza on imo, and the tweets issued by ngo vessels).
understanding the adoption curve isn’t entirely without value, however, because it can provide important foresight for when and how certain initiatives, whether strategic (for example, when and how customers are adopting technologies) or organizational (that is, when and how employees and partners are adopting them), will be necessary in response.
without policies designed with these considerations in mind, there may be critical technology failures, loss of life, and high-profile social controversies.
• police and security systems should deploy non-lethal means to disrupt and avert security threats and threats to the physical safety of humans.
when someone is thinking of suicide or hurting themselves, we've built infrastructure to give their friends and community tools that could save their life.
by contributing institutions or for the use of any information through the eurekalert system.the montreal declaration for a responsible development of artificial intelligence: a participatory process
while rhetoric in various circles stating, “privacy is dead” may be someone’s personal opinion reflecting their values, privacy is nonetheless a fundamental human right recognized in the un declaration of human rights, the international covenant on civil and political rights, and in many other international and regional treaties.
uvsq main exper ze is trajectory data modeling, indexing, mining, as well as privacy, with a focus on trajectories fol- lowing a prede ned network.
on how ai is perceived by policy makers and the general public.
we need to individuals to own technology designed for their benefit alone: technology that helps them stay in step with the ever-increasing demands imposed on them by others, helps protect them, and helps them interact with society.
in the government of alberta (goa) many different programs have been exploring what that means with respect to core business and policy mandates.
enabling individuals to curate their identities and manage the ethical implications of their data use will remain essential to human culture everywhere in the world.
privacy is a per- vasive ethical aspect when dealing with posi oning data, therefore, in master, we have speci c tasks for privacy pre-
the real question is not whether ai law will emerge, but how it can best come together — and over what timeframe.
in considering whether to accord legal protections, rights, and responsibilities to a/is, governments should exercise utmost caution.
1. mapping ai use cases to domains of social good page 1
the more data, the more “intelligence.”
all this leaves ample room for philanthropists and others to help build the capabilities needed to increase ai deployment for social good.
9 filippo raso et al., artificial intelligence and human rights: opportunities and risks, berkman klein center for internet and society at harvard university, september 25, 2018, https:// cyber.harvard.edu/sites/default/files/2018-09/2018-09_aihumanrightssmall.pdf.
technologies whose purpose contravenes widely accepted principles of international law and human rights.
in spite of the fact that the school he teaches at two and half hours outside of kumsai doesn’t have a computer, its students are expected to pass a national exam to advance to high school—and computer literacy is part of that test.
“how do we align artificial intelligence with human values?” future of life institute, february 3, 2017.
a specific community have been identified, including their properties and priority structure, we must link these norms to the functionalities of the underlying computational system.
to the public, and create reports on the proposed use of those tools (seattle, washington, surveillance ordinance 123576, http://seattle.legistar.com/viewreport.ashx?m=r&n=text&gid=393&id=2849012&guid=5b7d2f80- a918-4931-9e2e-88e27478a89e&title=legislation+text).
lady lynn forester de rothschild, ceo and founder of the coalition for inclusive capitalism, says: “the activities that society expects from business are changing and this will affect value creation for long-term investors.
data professionals should develop practices for holding themselves and peers accountable to shared standards.
such was the case with data generated by the electronic payment system for public transportation in the seattle region.
for example, _microsoft’s inclusive design program_ offers principles, frameworks, education, activities, examples and suggested stress tests “to shift design thinking towards universal solutions.”
providing dissemination services within a collaborative data sharing ecosystem (access to custom analytics products, open data and official statistics, secure data lab, communities of practice).
as project-based learning activities – allow for a didactical strategy which proves effective in artificial intelligence ethics education.
recently, we announced the creation of microsoft arti cial intelligence and research, a new group that brings together approximately 7,500 computer scientists, researchers and engineers.
in addition, tasks that are related to the design and deployment of ai itself are at this point still a human endeavor including research and development, production, deployment, maintenance, control, data annotation, testing, validation, etc.
we have to ask ourselves how much trust we can put in the systems that we’re creating and how much power we can give them.
by colleagues, clients and society at large.6,7 mark frankel o ers a taxonomy of professional ethics codes as aspirational, educational, and regulatory, noting that most codes are an admixture and serve multiple goals.
when it comes to ai, various factors can cause people to not trust otherwise trustworthy ai.
the acts of assembling, deliberating, distributing, training and enforcing ethics codes ultimately result in much broader impacts.
in flint, this approach could be relevant in other water pipe replacement efforts, although local data would be required.
6.2 how specific is this article to ai, and to the goal of the common good?
a careful and productive balancing of these objectives will require discussion and cooperation between governments, industry participants, academic researchers and civil society.
departments who don’t share data will have added costs to participate in the initiative as they become aware of data are of value to their core businesses.
the standard defines how to access, collect, share, and remove data related to children and students in any educational or institutional setting where their information will be access, stored, or shared.
in: data science for social good conference 2017, sep. 28-29, 2017, chicago, il http://dssg.uchicago.edu/wp-content/ uploads/2017/09/scott.compressed.pdf
a transfer to machine ethics would be difficult, especially as this approach is concerned only with the unit of human qualities.
[6] s. lee, common good.
this goal will be achieved by activities supporting ecosystem development with special support for smes, measures to foster mutual exchange between science and industry, activities together with european partners, and measures to improve access to and usage of data assets.
as a result, through every digital transaction (explicit or observed) humans are generating a unique digital shadow of their physical self.
being unable to escape poverty even while working is not only inhumane: it’s also a huge opportunity cost for ontario and canada’s businesses.
how can an industry that, unlike other business sectors, persistently promotes itself as doing good, learn to do that in reality?
not a lot, it turns out, prompting legal scholars to debate what rights eu citizens have under the new law–and what gdpr compliance ought to look like for global companies operating in europe.
artificial intelligence kan mogelijk zelfs bijdragen aan de uitbanning van ziekte en armoede.
and refusing to disclose the decision bases as ‘trade secrets.’ see details of the case here: https://www.aclu.org/news/federal- court-rules-against-idaho-department- health-and-welfare-medicaid-class-action and a related discussion of the general risks of opaque algorithmic bureaucracies here: https://medium.com/aclu/pitfalls-of-artificial- intelligence-decisionmaking-highlighted-in- idaho-aclu-case-ec59941fb026
but given the strong preference for sparing children, policymakers must be aware of a dual challenge if they decide not to give a special status to children: the challenge of explaining the rationale for such a decision, and the challenge of handling the strong backlash that will inevitably occur the day an autonomous vehicle sacrifices children in a dilemma situation.
extending the same reasoning, one could apply the “adversarial” method of ethics pen-testing also in a much wider range of settings.
future work, including our own, should explore how experimentation with sectoral roles and relationships in dssg may signify profound changes in the way society is organized and governed.
in short, the “innovation agenda” (to borrow a popular government phrase) cannot continue to ignore the crucial the step of interpreting the design and deployment of machine learning systems through effective and already existing human rights frameworks and labour laws.
however, this venture poses problematic assumptions even before the issue above can be explored, when, in classifying western values, we also group together thousands of years
while ai solutions are not a  rst nor an obvious choice for many social-sector organizations, a variety of stakeholders in the social and public sectors, in universities, and in a number
to rebuild after a crisis, we've built the world's largest social infrastructure for collective action.
this allowed us to collect data from millions of people over the entire world, a feat that would be nearly impossibly hard and costly to achieve through standard academic survey methods.
industry must also de ne its own standards for worker protection to ensure that society does not become further divided between the “haves and have-nots.” to promote the ef cient  ow of skills, encourage entrepreneurship, and allow workers to exercise their market power to the best of their ability, industry and governments must work together to  nd ways to enable workers to take their bene ts with them as they change jobs.
our team contact careers how we use your data code of conduct
9. data scientists and practitioners should accurately represent their quali cations, limits to their expertise, adhere to professional standards, and strive for peer accountability.
current systems of public policy and decision-making evolved alongside the second industrial revolution, when decision-makers had time to study a specific issue and develop the necessary response or appropriate regulatory framework.
even if they construct a complex deathtrap, indiana jones-style, the volitional act is the human’s.
social good” is then the indicator of such value.
so far, the same seems to be true of fields where ai is being deployed.
in 1843, ada lovelace became the first computer programmer by designing the first computer algorithm, and explaining how it would work on babbage’s proposed (but non-existent) analytical engine.
but, who could be held responsible for possible damages and security failures if an accident happens when your child is driven to school alone?
is it acceptable for an autonomous weapon to kill a human being?
there’s also no lack of work for privacy lawyers now that data protection agencies — the privacy regulators of our age — are operating in over 100 countries.
the thesis is simple: america, with its excellent research universities, may have had the edge during the “discovery phase” of ai.
assigning foundations for morality, autonomy, and intelligence.
describe some possible failure modes, including: scenarios where the system has incentives to attempt to gain control over its reward channel, scenarios where the learning process fails to be robust
what type of legal status (or other legal analytical framework) is appropriate for application
these clear benefits are why google invests heavily in ai research and development, and makes ai technologies widely available to others via our tools and open-source code.
• ieee p7006tm, standard for personal data artificial intelligence (ai) agent working group.
it also encompasses the concept of phronesis or practical wisdom from virtue ethics.
the impact of these systems on society is direct and considerable.
also of concern is the possibility that a single person would not get listened to or, worse, get steamrollered.
however optimistic we are about the potential for ai and algorithms to “do good,” their positive social impact remains far from guaranteed without adequate regulation to ensure social accountability, reduction of harm, and compliance with legal rights and protections.
according to amodei and hernandez7, the amount of compute used in the largest ai training runs has been increasing exponentially with a 3.5 month- doubling time (by comparison, moore’s law had an 18-month doubling period).
 people - establish capabilities both with the goa, partnerships and vendors to ensure the skills necessary to provide analysis (data science), and to have capacity to manage enabling imt systems and support change processes.
initial concerns regarding a/is also include questions of function, purpose, identity, and agency, a continuum of goal-directed behavior, with function being the most primitive expression.
ai practitioners, social entrepreneurs, domain experts, academics, and technology company executives.
events at nips in recent years illustrate the challenge of making the field more welcoming to women—and how the new money flowing into ai can sometimes make it worse.
“the impact of the eu’s new data protection regulation on ai.” center for data innovation.
are wide-ranging for both the public and the private sectors.
image: an aeronavics drone sits in a paddock near the town of raglan, new zealand, july 6, 2015. reuters/naomi tajitsu                                                    universal principles of data ethics
the eesc has identified 11 areas where ai raises societal concerns, ranging from ethics, safety, transparency, privacy and standards to labour, education, access, laws and regulations, governance, democracy, but also warfare and superintelligence.
potentially self-improving technical systems involves considerable risk, either because of misuse or poor design.
in addition, many have embarked on research programs that explore how to do ai “for good”.
in data privacy, a di erent and independent dimension becomes rel- evant when
but so far, says mr autor, there is “zero evidence” that ai is having a new and significantly different impact on employment.
regarding the former type of communication, a company could consider to add software modules to the robot to guarantee user data privacy and protection from external third-party manipulation.
this training focuses primarily on p  ractical  ethics, drawing on formal ethics in limited ways as a conceptual tool to help identify and classify ethical issues that commonly appear in technology practice.
• birth and the right to claim citizenship (government data)
[22] s. j. russell, p. norvig, artificial intelligence: a modern approach (prentice hall , englewood cliffs, nj, 1995)
for a robot's banter to be indistinguishable from a human is quite a breakthrough, but it's one that comes loaded with ethical and moral questions.
the lead researcher knew the transit agencies were hesitant to analyze this transaction data because of its sensitivity: it contained records of riders’ public transit use that could be cross referenced with the location of transit vehicles they boarded in order to reveal patterns of movement around the city.
11% of canadians already use ai-powered tools and devices for work life
in early 2018, mr. zuckerberg posted an acknowledgment that facebook “is crowding out the personal moments that lead us to connect more with each other,” and he pledged to change the site even if it meant that “the time people spend on facebook and some measures of engagement will go down.” but no matter how the site’s designers tweak facebook content, the human connections we need to escape danger, establish trust and rebuild society require recurrent social interaction in physical places, not pokes and likes with “friends” online.
when consent is not feasible or appropriate, organizations should engage in a robust audit process to account for processing of personal data against the interests of individuals.
we are strong advocates of encryption and have built it into the largest messaging platforms in the world -- whatsapp and messenger.
— empowering us all to accomplish more by being more productive and ef cient, driving better business outcomes, delivering more effective government services and helping
that is why we applaud the coalition for inclusive capitalism for bringing together key stakeholders to begin the hard work of understanding how to incorporate intangibles such as innovation, talent, environmental, social and governance attributes into the valuation of companies.
personal history and associations: education, work, criminal record, family, religious affiliation
while solving data challenges will require goodwill and careful coordination, the talent- related challenges we have identi ed with respect to applying ai for societal good are potentially long-term issues that start with changes in education systems.
just as digitization of society and the economy now affects all sectors, ai is likely to affect all professions, directly or indirectly, as regards their nature and/or the conditions under which they are carried out.
one of these initiatives is the creation of joint international research centers devoted to ai, aimed at bringing together researchers coming both from the public sector and from the private sectors to stimulate the implementation of pilot projects and more in general innovation.
as in the commercial sector, these capabilities are good at recognizing patterns from the types of data they use, particularly unstructured data rich in information, such as images, video, and text, and they are particularly effective at completing classi cation and prediction tasks.
independently of whether one follows baum’s sinister interpretation of the political will of the nixon campaign, there is now a more widespread acceptance of criminalization and incarceration not having “solved” anything at all [43]: (a) legal al- ternatives to criminalization exist, have been or are being tested in different countries, and have often led to measurable improvements in health and crime statistics, (b) legal drugs (in particular alcohol) and prescription drugs (such as opioid painkillers) affect far more people than illegal drugs and cause enor- mous human suffering and economic costs, and (c) the “cure” of criminalization imparts suffering and creates new problems, also for the common good.
the questions of confidence in the justice system, and of whether to facilitate and deliver justice by means of ai (including the development of a taxonomy of the types of decisions that can or should be made using ai), can only be fully answered by those in whom that confidence resides: the public.
if designed properly, ai can help make decisions that are fairer because computers are purely logical and, in theory, are not subject to the conscious and unconscious biases that inevitably in uence human decision-making.
disruption is also flowing from agile, innovative competitors who, thanks to access to global digital platforms for research, development, marketing, sales, and distribution, can oust well-established incumbents faster than ever by improving the quality, speed, or price at which value is delivered.
another risk is that the combined use of big data, connected technologies and ai tools like face recognition or sentiment analysis to make predictions and conclusions lead to the exclusion of certain citizens, workers or consumers.
how can we ensure that a/is do not infringe upon human rights?
forma on and control over it related to other en  es (such as or- ganisations, the ngos in the current example and in the argu- ment made by ho mann et al., a con- cept rooted in it security).
consider, for example, google’s autocomplete tool, where algorithms attempt to determine one’s search parameters via the user’s initial keyword input, offering suggestions based on several criteria including search patterns.
but yanis varoufakis of the university of athens sees another solution: “a universal basic dividend (ubd), financed from the returns on all capital.” under varoufakis’s scheme, the pace of automation and rising corporate profitability would pose no threat to social stability, because society itself would become “a shareholder in every corporation, and the dividends [would be] distributed evenly to all citizens.” at a minimum, varoufakis contends, a ubd would help citizens recoup or replace some of the income lost to automation.
instituting programs such as training courses, design thinking groups, scenario or social systems analyses, or audits
we are interested both in non-profit projects and in projects that, that while not defined as non-profit, still have social good as their main focus, and so have man- aged to build a sustainable business model.”5
the way enterprises train workers, cultivate culture, and build institutional knowledge and intellectual property.
this proposal first suggests protecting personal privacy by entrenching the concept of a registered, protected personal profile into our legal and ethical system.
of maryland, faculty and students working in a media law class  led numerous general public records requests for information regarding criminal risk assessment algorithm usage in all  fty states.56 the responses they received varied signi cantly, making it di cult to aggregate data and compare usage across jurisdictions.
key term: artificial intelligence (ai)
use cases can take in various data types and are often associated with more than one ai capability.
this means a responsible, human- centric and ethical use of ai in a way that serves the good of society.
a lot will have to be done to create fair and effective life-long skill development/training infrastructure and mechanisms capable of empowering millions
the recently founded data science association o ers a relatively detailed ethics code that is notable for detailing how members should adhere
choose only minimum compliance to legislation like the european general data protection regulation (gdpr), forward-thinking organizations will shift their data strategy (marketing, product, and sales) to enable methods of harnessing volunteered intentions from customers (or in governmental contexts, citizens), versus only invisibly tracking their attention or actions.
smart decisions now will benefit you later — and that’s a good first step on the ai journey.in the age of disruptive innovation, adaptability is what matters most
when re- searchers depend on the collaboration of a project partner (for example, to have access to data or to stakeholders), they may face difficulties if they con- ceptualize the problem in a way that contradicts the project partner’s notion.
• that adaptive and learning systems can explain their reasoning and decisions to human operators in transparent and understandable ways.
i will start from the definitions given in various ai ethics codes of the common good and related notions, and draw on selected discussions in political philosophy for deriving questions about these definitions and their operationalization for ai.
the fact is that we don’t want to have to make this decision, and we certainly don’t want to publicly admit if our decision is to protect ourselves over the child.
: understanding the aim of intercultural information ethics.” acm sigcas computers and society 39, no.
for a small resource cost, a companion robot can provide significant psychological assistance.
as this process takes place and new technologies such as autonomous or biological weapons become easier to use, individuals and small groups will increasingly join states in being capable of causing mass harm.
robotics as such is not in the focus of the present article, but robots are relevant to the focus on ai and ethics.
royal free and deepmind contentiously claim that they are using the records for “direct care” of patients, meaning the hospital trust is able to oversee the implementation of the data sharing partnership.
30 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
we need to keep working together to build on this foundation, and the progress made by other initiatives, to drive impact and scale so that we can translate the commitments of all epic participants into truebehavior change.”ibm’s watson gave unsafe recommendations for treating cancer
the guardian view on the ethics of ai: it’s about dr frankenstein, not his monster
other ai projects work on modifying human thought by developing devices capable of generating a range of answers to human queries.
[4] but what i see time and again are narratives that depict ai within a long history of evolution moving from unicellular prokaryotes to eukaryotes to slime to plants to animals to chimps to homo erectus to homo sapiens to transhuman superintelligence as our technology changes ever more quickly and we have a parallel data world where leave traces of every activity in sensors and clicks and words and recordings and images and all the things.
as in the commercial sector, these capabilities are good at recognizing patterns from the types of data they use, particularly unstructured data rich in information, such as images, video, and text, and they are particularly effective at completing classification and prediction tasks.
but the automatization of work creates a second effect that is as important, albeit less well understood.
application / use-case driven ai research and innovation superclusters with strong industry involvement could be established and/or networked globally.
8. prudence principle
benefit for humanity, we need to be able
ai and enabling technologies like robotics and autonomous vehicles will change lives and livelihoods.
no one ai enabled entity should have the purpose of attention seeking, channeling or controlling any one human entity or any group of human entities.
 public and social sector management.
for example, the national science foundation big data regional innovation hubs were “established to foster multi-sector collaborations among academia, industry, and government” (“big data regional innovation hubs: establishing spokes to advance big data applications [solicitation],” 2017) to work on applied research projects that address the needs of various geographic regions.
they observe other community members’ behavior and are sensitive to collective norm change;
and governance, insofar as it deals with the subject, is more likely to investigate ai’s applications for security and intelligence than to explore the transformation of the human condition that it has begun to produce.
how to scale these programs through public and private partnerships to have sustainable impact on the workforce.
but create the possibility of digital assault or false light.
some of these are also customizable so that they can be better optimized to help transform and improve business processes speci c to an organization’s industry and business needs.
create at-scale ai training programs: industry can form coalitions to collect data, oversee curriculum development and rapidly retrain workers in the skills needed to succeed in nascent ai applications.
of society versus the impact of any one technology, they reflect the lack of universal usage of well-being indicators for a/is.
if you try to manually “ignore race” by not letting race be an input to your model, it comes in through the back door: for example, someone’s zip code and income predict their race with great precision.
brenda mcphail, the director of the privacy, technology, and surveillance project for the canadian civil liberties association, said she suspects most people share photos of themselves without thinking of the potential consequences.
“regulating artificial intelligence systems: risks, challenges, competencies, and strategies.” harvard journal of law and technology 29, no.
smaller cities and towns, heavily reliant on one industry or employer, will experience [ai- induced] automation differently from either larger or more diversified economies, regardless of the proportion of work activities with the potential to be automated.
he credits six months of parental leave after the birth of his second child in 2012 for giving him a basic income while he created his highly successful company.
whether public entities or nonprofit organizations, they are thought to be lacking the capacity to harness the power of data.
• to foster a safe international community of a/is users, policymakers should take similar work being carried out around the world into consideration.
any statements contained in this document that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the u.s. private securities litigation reform act of 1995. words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “should” and “will” and similar expressions as they relate to sap are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
if humans are to develop levels of trust in a/is that are appropriate in the specific contexts and roles in which a/is function.
a domesticated animal with more rights than a simple piece of property, but less than a human?
1) personal spaces in which people are not subjected to surveillance or digital evaluation must be protected from the intrusion of ais and data acquisition and archiving systems (daas).
the first industrial revolution used water and steam power to mechanize production.
the study found technophobes have “95 percent greater odds of not being able to stop or control worrying” than others.
the possibility of sharing healthcare data, the finngen genomic research partnership was able to create a system to gather and share blood sample data through biobanks.
at microsoft we’re working to “democratize ai” in a manner that’s similar to the way we “democratized the pc.” just as our work that started in the 1970s enabled organizations across society to create their own custom applications for the pc, the same thing will happen with ai.
already it’s possible to start de ning six ethical principles that should guide the development and use of arti cial intelligence.
6. investor list(s), developers, and promoters of any given a/is being developed should be required by law to be made public when the a/is are used for governmental purposes.
this is evident in the burgeoning on-demand — or “gig” — economy where digital platforms not only match the skills of workers with consumer or enterprise needs, they provide for people to work increasingly from anywhere in the world.
the use of unaudited “black box” systems in core public agencies.11 the turn to automated decision-making and predictive systems must not prevent agencies from ful lling their responsibility to protect basic democratic values, such as fairness, justice, and due process, and to guard against threats like illegal discrimination or deprivation of rights.
this october, dot updated this guidance in preparing for the future of transportation: automated vehicles 3.0 (av 3.0), expanding the scope to provide a framework and multimodal approach to the safe integration of automated vehicles into the nation’s broader surface transportation system.
28 see, for example: ieee global initiative on ethics of autonomous and intelligent systems, “ethically aligned design: a vision for prioritizing human well-being w ith autonomous and intelligent systems.”
why are the nudging standards relevant to business ?
and one epic quite relevant for this type of big picture narrative about ai is john milton’s paradise lost, the epic to end all epics, the swan song that signaled the shift to the novel, the fusion of genesis and rome, an encyclopedia of seventeenth-century scientific thought and political critique as the british monarchy collapsed under the rushing sword of oliver cromwell.
to fulfill a fundamen- tal human need for belongingness (defined as the need to form and maintain strong, stable interpersonal relationships; baumeister & leary, 1995), people choose social identities with particular groups and seek acceptance into those groups.
will be made publicly available at the website of the ieee global initiative on ethics of autonomous and intelligent systems no later than 4 june 2018. details on how to submit public comments
there is some evidence to suggest that inclusion is related to both job satisfaction and turnover intentions.
inside any ai model are a bunch of rules to combine features, each of which depends on one of hundreds, thousands, or even millions of individual knobs, telling it how much to weigh the significance of each feature under different circumstances.
agreement on moral decisions, verifiability of a/is decisions, justified trust).
“loophole ethics,” in moral reasoning at work: rethinking ethics in organizations, 55–61.
such training workshops are best led by qualified technology ethicists with experience teaching applied ethics content in technical and industry settings.
other capabilities have social potential, including sound recognition, reinforcement learning, and advanced analytics beyond these three capabilities, our use case library suggests that other capabilities, including both developing ai ones and more established advanced analytics, have potential applications for social bene t.
a phenomenon with consequences beyond technology, and the community should demand that data scientists and practitioners consider those consequences.
it is, therefore, critically important for industry participants to share best practices for design and development, such as effective testing, the structure of trials and reporting.
• ieee p7005tm, standard for transparent employer data governance.
the following are some examples of work underway in standards and principles development, as well as individual jurisdictional approaches.
this will ensure the commitment of industrial users to ethical values and principles in using ai, foster responsible technology development (e.g.
should we know with whom our personal data are shared and, more generally, who is using these data?
your dedication toward defining, designing, and inspiring the ethical principles and standards that will ensure that intelligent and autonomous systems and the technologies associated therewith will positively benefit humanity.
in an advanced ai economy, fewer people would hold traditional jobs, governments would collect less in taxes, and countries would have smaller gdps; yet everyone would be better off, free to consume a widening range of goods that have been decoupled from income.
“artificial intelligence and life in 2030: one hundred year study on artificial intelligence.” stanford, ca: stanford university, 2016.
the health of corporations and financial markets – and public trust in both – is critical to economic growth.
 q2: how do we determine which ai systems require more rigorous accountability regimes for their appropriate governance?
timely access to public, social sector, and private data will speed response, avoid collection duplications, and provide a more comprehensive summary of a situation, based on multiple data streams and a wider range of indicators.
higher education in ai and related areas must receive appropriate funding.
just as undirected a/is can lead to negative outcomes, a/is directed only to specific ends without considering human well-being can lead to negative side effects.
• when ai systems are used to make consequential decisions about people, a requirement to provide adequate explanations of overall system operation, including information about the training data and algorithms, training failures that have occurred, and the inferences and signi cant predictions generated, especially.
“towards an ethical robot: internal models, consequences and ethical action selection,” in advances in autonomous robotics systems.
first, when we include all six characteristic variables in regression-based estimators of each of the nine attributes, we find that individual variations have no sizable impact on any of the nine attributes (all below 0.1; see extended data table 1).
a major source of the problem concerns the current framework of data collection and storage, which puts corporate organizations in custody of personal data and detached from the generators of that information.
industry, research and academic sectors have been working on analytics projects for some time and continue to invest heavily in the skills, technologies and the techniques involved with data analysis.
in europe, “dignity” is the first of the “6 rights” recognized within the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
as the use and impact of autonomous and intelligent systems (a/is) become pervasive, we need to establish societal and policy guidelines in order for such systems to remain human-centric, serving humanity’s values and ethical principles.
minister bains: we discussed many topics around the theme of jobs of the future, and i am very confident that we will work together to create opportunities.
according to michael jordan10 from uc berkeley, the community may be focusing entirely on the wrong problem , that is “im itative ai”, the c opying of hum an -level intelligence, while there is ample room for using the existing statistical learning methods to set up a planetary scale learning and inference engine to address problems in the above-mentioned application areas.
an example of this is a diagnostic tool that may overall be better than a human doctor but that makes significantly more diagnosis errors when the patient is a member of an ethnic minority.
4, regulation (eu) 2016/679, of the european parliament and the council of 27 april 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing directive 95/46/ec (general data protection regulation), 2016 o.j.
as innocuous as it may seem, the viral “10 year challenge” flooding social media feeds everywhere may have been created to collect large amounts of data for future facial recognition software, according to one prominent tech writer.
states have obligations to promote, protect and respect human rights; private sector, including companies, has a responsibility to respect human rights at all times.
there are a few reasons for the increase in issues we've seen: cultural norms are shifting, cultures are different around the world, and people are sensitive to different things.
“evaluating the potential of differential privacy mechanisms for census data.” work session on statistical data confidentiality 2013. ottawa, october 28, 2013.
after all, if you can’t give the ai a bunch of examples of what is and isn’t a good solution look like, what’s it going to learn from?
 empower and establish a culture of innovation and collaboration in the public service;
researchers from baylor university studied “technophobes” — people who fear new technology, like robots or ai, that they don’t understand — and the potential mental health issues associated with that fear.
governments can help add to the supply of available data by ensuring that public data is usable by ai developers on a non-exclusive basis.
however, the development of artiﬁcial intelligence does pose major ethical challenges and social risks.
this requirement by itself would go a long way towards shedding light on which technologies are being deployed and where accountability research and community advocacy should be focused.
today’s ai cannot yet begin to compete with a child’s ability to understand and interact with the world using senses such as touch, sight and smell.
quality of life improved considerably as well as life expectancy.
an important government role is to strategically educate the public and private sectors on key a/is technologies and applications.
to the social, ethical, and policy challenges raised by new and emerging technologies.
initial and continuing training systems will have to find a good balance between the acquisition of formal and academic knowledge but also knowledge based on “experiential” learning based on trial and error, creativity and risk-taking.
in terms of how ieee p7010 fits into this picture, our goal is to create methodologies that can connect data outputs from ai devices or systems that can correlate to various economic indicators that can widen the lens of value beyond just fiscal issues.
adoption describes the gap between the rate at which technology changes and the rate at which individuals make those changes a part of their daily life.
there is only so much talent to go around, making it hard and very expensive for smaller companies to attract and retain the skilled workers required to make their ai dreams a reality.
with mixed reality, our notions of time will be multi-modal and as such will have a societal impact in terms of culture, relationships, and perception of the self.
to a situation that minimizes the protection of inalienable human rights, or lowers the standard
the hands of a small number of ai companies or the hands of a small number human entities (i.e.
in: data science for social good conference 2017, sep. 28-29, 2017, chicago, il http://dssg.uchicago.edu/wp-content/ uploads/2017/09/tanweer.pdf
securing ai systems will require developers to identify abnormal behaviors and prevent manipulation, such as the introduction of malicious data that may be intended to negatively impact ai behavior.
the results of a study by pelled and her colleagues (pelled, ledford, & mohrman, 1999), which examined and found support for decision-making influence, access to information, and job security as indica- tors of workplace inclusion, provide some understanding of the construct of inclusion and practices to support inclusion in organizations.
or will ai’s decision making surpass the explanatory powers of human language and reason?
2. prioritize benefits to humanity and the natural environment from the use of a/is.
ontario got a lot of good press for the initiative and was being watched internationally as an example of political stakeholders and researchers collaborating in evidence-based policy-making, he said.
care must be taken to augment human interaction with a/is and to avoid discrimination against segments of society.
5. in the traditional framework, virtue ethics (also aristotle) plays an important rule.
voice technology and social robots provide newly accessible solutions, specifically to people disadvantaged by sight problems, dyslexia and limited mobility.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 13
become mutually responsive to each other with a view to the (ethical) acceptability, sustainability and societal desirability of the innovation process and its marketable products (in order to allow a proper embedding of scientific and technological advances in our society).”1
a/is, and especially those with embedded norms, must have a high level of transparency, from traceability in the implementation process, mathematical verifiability of its reasoning,
for computers, experience is captured in the form of data.
eli pariser’s “filter bubble” is the inevitable result of consumers’ desire to get what they want enabled by an industry that naturally wants to create products that will sell.
if justice can be delivered by ai more quickly, at less cost and with no diminishment in public confidence, then the possibilities of judicial ai should be explored and implemented.
natural language processing is most useful in domains where information is commonly stored in unstructured textual form, such as incident reports, health records, newspaper articles, and social media posts such as tweets.
the path forward is to recognize that a global community needs social infrastructure to keep us safe from threats around the world, and that our community is uniquely positioned to prevent disasters, help during crises, and rebuild afterwards.
further, even the rudimentary versions of synthetic emotions already in use have significant impact
in the past few years, we’ve been deluged with discussions of how artificial intelligence (ai) will either save or destroy the world.
this is where the individual is not treated as an organiza- tional insider with unique value in the work group, but there are other employees or groups who are considered insiders.
agencies will be better able to assess the risks and bene ts associated with di erent types of systems, and work with vendors and researchers to conduct and share relevant testing and research on their automated decision system, including but not limited to testing for any potential biases that could adversely impact an individual or group.
to calculate ai usage frequency, we estimated the number of times that models trained using ai would be used in a year to predict an outcome.
there were other attributes, however, that appeared to be representative of broader human resource management systems, such as 360-degree commu- nication and information sharing, participatory work systems and employee involvement, and equitable systems for recognition, acknowledgment, and reward.
before ai began to play go, the game had varied, layered purposes: a player sought not only to win, but also to learn new strategies potentially applicable to other of life’s dimensions.
as a/is becomes more prevalent while also potentially becoming more removed from the human developer/manufacturer, what is the correct approach to ensure legal accountability for harms caused by a/is?
“much of the knowledge is related directly to one company’s practices, and has little value in another business.
as our framework suggests, we argue that belongingness should be accompa- nied by being valued for uniqueness in order for work groups to promote perceptions of employee inclusion.
artificial intelligence will go to the united states and china [because] ai is an industry in which strength begets strength: the more data you have, the better
the 21st century calls for a new kind of leadership to inspire confidence in the ability of technology to enhance human potential rather than substitute for it.
outside of futurist and techie/geek circles, that was one of the first moments when a leading global consultancy companies approached business, society and economy through the lenses of technology disruption — that is, having technology as the key force and organizing principle for the analysis.
computers are very good at probabilistic reasoning, something many people are not so good at.
what do we stand to lose when we code “frictions” or randomness out of our lives that may cause discomfort, but can also bring joy and growth?
people may be losing their ability to understand what kinds of processing is done by a/is on their private data, and thus may be becoming unable to meaningfully consent to online terms.
10. principle of accountability
(for discussion of specific values that are critical for ethical considerations of a/is, see the sections “personal data and individual access control” and “well-being”.)
effective mitigation strategies typically involve “human in the loop” interventions, in which humans are involved in the decision or analysis loop to validate models and double-check results from ai solutions.
so let’s start by talking about what machine learning, or artificial intelligence, is.
it gives you life to knowledge?
about ten years ago, artificial intelligence (ai) technologies started to achieve incredible progress in a surprising variety of applications because of three fundamental technological advances:
does a company that wants to be transparent need to trick our ears into thinking a robot is human?
sim- ilarly, in data protection principles and laws such as the gdpr, data minimization (collecting and using as little personal data as possible for the task at hand) is a guiding principle.
the internet and social media have unquestionably made it easier to meet new people and maintain contact with friends and family.
in the absence of experienced professionals in the social sector, companies with ai
i'm disturbed by what this technology means and why we even needed to take artificial intelligence this far.
 clear roles, responsibilities and accountabilities are established across the government and at the appropriate levels.
it in future aias as long as it continues to accurately describe the systems in ways that reinforce public trust and accountability.
a necessary condition for designing systems that fur- ther the common good is to hear the voices of mul- tiple and diverse people who will be affected by the system.
• weaver, j. f. robots are people too: how siri, google car, and artificial intelligence will force us to change our laws.
given research that shows that individuals from diverse social and cultural groups are often excluded from networks of information and opportunity in organi- zations (ibarra, 1993; pettigrew & martin, 1989), inclusion has been used in other areas to describe worker participation and empowerment.
any human being interacting with any non-living autonomous entity, i.e.
individual ai could protect personal privacy, it could be used to make the interaction with corporate ai and government ai anonymous.
than “social good” in particular), the itu, the un agency responsible for issues that concern infor- mation and communication technologies, leads the “ai for global good summit”.
the organizations are not necessarily noncommercial; some are commercial companies either working on social good causes or using solutions that can have
40% of early adopters believe integrating ai into the company’s roles and functions is one of the top three challenges.
principle 3 — accountability
 ensure that people receive appropriate training and education in the potential issues related to ai: we underline the fact that this is not only a question of training the developers of ai systems but all strata of society;
ethically aligned design: a vision for prioritizing human well-being with autonomous and intelligent systems
26 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
source: elizabeth bondi et al., spot poachers in action: augmenting conservation drones with automatic detection in near real time, 32nd aaai conference on artificial intelligence, april 27, 2018; mckinsey global institute analysis
she is a member of the partnership on ai's working group on fair, transparent, and accountable ai.
the value of the data to support the business of government is currently limited by its ability to effectively share and process data and to derive useful information from this data owing to:
in the first sense, accountability is a feature of the ai system itself.12 building explainability into the ai systems would partially address the ai’s accountability in this sense.
but true_enterprise preparedness for ai must ready the broader organization_, chiefly people, processes and principles.
ai democratization should lead to social justice and the 99% of human beings controlling their managing 1%.
aias, on the other hand, are explicitly designed to engage public agencies and the people they serve on these areas of concern through the various notice, comment, review, and due process elements.
for monks, labor was part and parcel of devotion, and if you weren’t good at writing, you could do binding, or painting, or for heaven’s sake practice.
at the same time, it is important to note that the goal cannot simply be to increase levels of trust in ai.
this should be given a high national priority, above all, from the point of view of relating ai to humanistic traditions.
for example, if someone (or an algorithm) knows where a person lives, what time she goes to work, and what she buys online, it hardly matters if her name is attached to her personhood or not -- she is still vulnerable to being distinguished as an individual.
for instance, the flagship program industrie 4.0 platform has successfully improved networking and cooperation in the field of manufacturing, earning global recognition for this work and setting standards.
an increase in the labour force participation rate is commonly thought to be associated with a rise in the unemployment rate, since labour force entrants must search for a job.
as ai begins to augment human understanding and decision-making in  elds like education, healthcare, transportation, agriculture, energy and manufacturing, it will raise new societal questions.
3) ais hardware, its digital infrastructure and the relevant objects on which it relies, must minimize our impact on ecosystems and biodiversity at every stage of its life cycle, notably with respect to the extraction of resources and the ultimate disposition of the equipment when it has reached the end of its useful life.
weapons may not have transparency, auditability, verification, or validation in their design or use.
• conduct media outreach to illustrate a/is beneficial uses, and the important steps being taken to ensure safety and transparency.
for her part, cathy o’neil has described how the instrument created by ai experts to help xerox find good call centre workers at first discriminated against poorer applicants, since (1) poorer people tend to live in poorer neighbourhoods (2) poorer neighbourhoods tend to be located further away from workplaces than more affluent ones and (3) people with longer commutes tend to
an individual’s intelligence does not tell us anything about his or her morality; this is also the case for any other intelligent entity.
in our everyday life we interact with a number of diverse, real-life applica ons that produce massive amounts of spa-  o-temporal data represen ng trajec- tories of moving objects.
to measure a population’s well-being for policy makers, can provide value to a/is technologists.
given the lack of empirical research that demonstrates a relationship between diversity and organizational variables, it would also be useful to know if the dimensions revealed in this study are related to perfor- mance, agility, or other characteristics of organizations.
further, although the definitions used in the survey represented an amalgam of those included in prior diversity research as well as reported by respon- dents in study 1, the design of the survey created an inherent distinction between the concepts of diversity and inclusion.
timeless objectivity is not something they could ever provide; it’s not what human culture provides.
ai and in particular ds often appear to operate on the assumption “the more knowledge, the better“.
the women's march is an example of this, where a grandmother with an internet connection wrote a post that led her friends to start a facebook event that eventually turned into millions of people marching in cities around the world.
moving beyond privacy and data priva- cy, many other ques ons, technical as well as ethical, arise about informa on disclosure and hiding.
be considered to be a person in a legal sense, nor marketed as a person.
finally, and perhaps most broadly, accountability is seen as a feature of the broader sociotechnical system that develops, procures, deploys and uses ai.14 for example, ai now proposes an algorithmic impact assessment framework (similar to a privacy impact assessment) as a means of building accountability into the broader sociotechnical system in which ai is deployed, only part of which would include responsibility determinations.
the survey indicated that the purpose of the study was to understand the meanings of diversity and inclusion in organiza- tions, including the attributes or characteristics that identify those work- places.
a number of different stakeholders could be engaged to provide role-specific input on the development and maintenance of robust global ai accountability regimes.
for three-quarters of our use cases, we have seen deployment of solutions that employ some level of advanced analytics; most of these use cases, although not all, would further benefit from the use of
in general, any de nition should certainly cover systems that might have a disparate impact on vulnerable communities and to pay careful attention to how broad terms, like “automated processing,” are speci ed in practice.
our data helped us to identify three strong preferences that can serve as building blocks for discussions of universal machine ethics, even if they are not ultimately endorsed by policymakers: the preference for sparing human lives, the preference for sparing more lives, and the preference for sparing young lives.
our hope is that this model provides examples of how collective decision-making may work in other aspects of the global community.
● increasing concentration of power:  the tendency of new technologies to concentrate wealth and power in the hands of very few, and evidence of declining economic mobility and opportunity in many technologically-driven societies
eesc opinion: artificial intelligence
swerving would result in the death of three passengers: an adult man, an adult woman, and a boy (right).
social media have recently been described as intensifying the echo- chamber effects that media often have anyway, e.g.
public discussions about the ethics of “big data” analytics are rapidly gaining prominence in public discourse.
effects on labour markets and employment are popular areas ofpublic concernanddebate, but the potential societal effects of ai extend more broadly.
users are expressly advised that determination of the validity of any patent rights, and the risk of infringement of
• empowering the education sector with advanced courses on a/is is the first step toward creating a nation that can handle the new economic and power shifts.
this holistic definition of well-being encompasses individual, social, economic, and governmental circumstances as well as human rights, capabilities, environmental protection, and fair labor, as these circumstances and many others form the basis for human well-being.
▪ effective management of public sector
armed with government support and world leading researchers, canada has received hundreds of millions in additional foreign direct investment destined toward artificial intelligence.
billions of people around the world now use platforms such as facebook, whatsapp, and wikipedia for free.
a responsible approach to embedded values (both as uncritical bias and as value by design) in information and communications technology (ict), algorithms and autonomous systems
a recent report from the royal bank of canada found that most major canadian companies are not implementing artificial intelligence.
 formally endorse an existing, or create a new declaration of, principles on ethical ai.
• system engineers must work to the same high standards and regulations of security for aws design from a cybersecurity perspective than they would for any other work.
three-quarters of them are concentrated in the same five domains where many ai capabilities are applicable: crisis response, education, equality and inclusion, health and hunger, and security and justice (exhibit 7).
research and collaboration involving industry participants, governments, academics and other experts to further improve the safety and reliability of ai systems will be increasingly important as ai systems become more widely used in  elds such as transportation, healthcare and  nancial services.
the employee must also have the ability/possibility to request privacy for certain data as well as have the
in the global conversation about a crucial technology and industry of the future -- artificial intelligence (ai) -- germany is not being talked about.
using many of the same creative tools, ar provides a way to use public spaces as a canvas for meaningful cultural exchange and, in doing
for example, an employee who is older than other work group members may have knowledge of the company and its industry that is potentially valuable to the group.
in the first instance, the stoa report might be a useful ‘tool’ for the relevant committees to prepare their opinions on the delvaux draft report on civil law rules on robotics.
1 crawford k, gray ml and miltner k (2014) critiquing big data: politics, ethics, epistemology.
ai here is replacing handcrafted models leading to more accurate predictions on how human activities for example affect the environment.
in sum, it seems that although there is not a substan- tial amount of literature on these two outcomes, there is some evidence to show that both job satisfaction and turnover intentions are viable outcomes of perceived inclusion.
these days, think of the books by the likes of nick carr or andrew keen, who focus on just how awful new technology is making people, compared to "back in their day..." when things were just lovely.
is the optimal digital representation of a person the externally observable physical facade, or an illusion better aligned to the individual’s self-image and identity?
in situating a/is within this moral domain, it will have to adhere to the principles of community, identity and solidarity with others.
this sample was chosen given their general familiarity with human resource man- agement without a specific interest and/or focus on diversity.
ieee p7005tm - standard for transparent employer data governance
 large-scale use of ai for social good entails risks that will need to be mitigated, and some tradeoffs to be made, to avoid hurting the very individuals the ai application was intended to help.
institutions (medical, government, education, corporations) should include education in applied legal consent principles, situation training regarding forms of consent, ethics certification testing, and perhaps a notarized public declaration to uphold ethical principles of consent.
• serve as a basis for adjudicating disputes among members of the profession and disputes between members and the public
we consider the technological aspects in depth as often the common perception of ai is misaligned with the effective technical readiness level.
no entities, living or non-living, should have the right to kill any living entities, without being judged by a local governing human authority.
arti cial intelligence (ai), which for the purposes of this paper we use as shorthand to refer speci cally to deep learning techniques, is increasingly moving out of the research lab and into the world of business.1 beyond its commercial uses, now increasingly widespread in mobile and other consumer applications, ai has noncommercial potential to do good.
in section 1 which focuses on technical issues, we recommend that a/is teams working to develop these systems cultivate a “safety mindset,” in the conduct of research in order to identify and preempt unintended and unanticipated behaviors in their systems, and work to develop systems which are “safe by design.” furthermore, we recommend that institutions set up review boards as a resource to researchers and developers, and to evaluate relevant projects and their progress.
global prosperity, health, and overall well-being, especially given the potential impact of superintelligent systems (in the sense of bostrom [2014]).
the number of legal clerks in america increased by 1.1% a year between 2000 and 2013. similarly, the automation of shopping through e-commerce, along with more accurate recommendations, encourages people to buy more and has increased overall employment in retailing.
a good test of whether a system might fall within the category i have in mind is to ask yourself if the developers might end up in court after their system goes wrong and causes some serious harm.
but some researchers in economics caution that the impact of robotics and artificial intelligence in the next several years will be much more rapid than job displacement of the past – particularly for those with routine job responsibilities.
it is important to focus the analysis on how employment structures will be changed by automation and ai rather than on solely dwelling on the number of jobs that might be impacted.
uncritical obedience to authority (“good germans’/‘good americans”)
“artificial intelligence and pro-social behavior,” in collective agency and cooperation in natural and artificial systems, edited by catrine misselhorn, 281–306, springer, 2015.
this may include going beyond existing tax bases to consider other methods of funding social safety nets.
opportunity: benefit to vendors
personal data access and consent should be managed by the individual using systems that provide notification and an opportunity for consent at the time the data is used, versus outside actors being able to access personal data outside of an individual’s awareness or control.
a recent study (hansen, 2008) presented evidence that even when women and minorities have the same starting salaries and comparable per- formance ratings, their merit increases are smaller than those awarded to their white male counterparts.
in the humanitarian sector, digital technologies have streamlined data collection and data sharing, frequently enabling improved outcomes.
google’s ethical principles for the use of artificial intelligence are little more than a smokescreen, but they show that many engineers are rightly worried by the possible uses of the technology they’re developing
2 human rights–based approaches have been applied to development, education, and reproductive health.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 7
we conclude with a series of recommendations for the effective management of ai, which can be summarized as follows:
three-quarters of them are concentrated in the same  ve domains where many ai capabilities are applicable: crisis response, education, equality and inclusion, health and hunger, and security and justice (exhibit 7).
1. secure public sector input on the design of appropriate accountability regimes for ai;
to the military application of a/is, the domestic use of a/is in predictive policing (shapiro, 2017), banking (garcia, 2017), judicial sentencing (osoba and welser, 2017), job hunting and hiring practices (datta, tschantz, and datta, 2014),
that’s who we are.” mr. zuckerberg’s letter, released during this unusually public conflict with the new president, was meant to be facebook’s new mission statement as well as its blueprint for how to rebuild society in a tumultuous, potentially authoritarian age.
the advantage that ml models have over humans doing the same task isn’t speed; an ml model typically takes a few milliseconds to make a decision, which is roughly what a human takes as well.
a/is ethics explore the shinto paradigm as representative, though not necessarily as directly applicable, to global efforts in understanding and applying traditional and classical ethics methodologies to ethics for a/is.
for more mobility, while others felt it would decrease their opportunities for social contact and lead to an overall decrease in their well- being.
servants have controlled access: standard contracts would apply in cases where society’s authorized servants must access a citizen’s personal data.
on the employment front, computers and machines are now often performing labour intensive tasks with more efficiency and effectiveness than humans.
in considering the nature of human and autonomous systems interactions, the above notion of “proper relationships” through buddhist ethics can provide a useful platform that results in ethical statements formulated
by having organizations including the global reporting initiative (gri), b-corp, and standards development organizations (sdo) create certifications, guidelines, and standards that demonstrate the value of holistic, well-being- centric reporting guidelines for the a/is public and private sectors.
the standard will also include benchmarking procedures and criteria for selecting validation data sets, establishing and communicating the application boundaries for which the algorithm has been designed, and guarding against unintended consequences.
the ai hleg experts have identified the overall framework of core values and principles to be considered when dealing with ai.
law mandates transparency, participation, and accuracy in government decision-making.
opportunity: aias and public records requests
“...a society where, as a result of the progress of ai networking, humans live in harmony with ai networks, and data/information/knowledge are freely and safely created, distributed, and linked to form a wisdom network, encouraging collaborations beyond space among people, things, and events in various fields and consequently enabling creative and vibrant developments.”25
while many other insights can be drawn by mapping use cases, domains, and capabilities, we will describe some of our  ndings from this cross-domain view.
hoyt long and richard jean so have used it to trace the diffusion of a haiku style in modernist poetry.6 katherine bode’s a world of fiction compares different models to explain how australian and american writers diverged from british tradition in the 19th century.7 andrew piper’s enumerations even uses these methods to tease out insights about the special appeal of windows for introverted heroines.8
however, it should be noted that “when it comes to employment at all levels in the tech business, the uk performs better than the rest of the industry.
* it is a question of trust - we all stand to benefit if ai is used to improve outcomes
satan exploits eve’s mental model of the great chain of being to tempt her to eat the forbidden apple.
ensuring explainability is especially important in use cases relating to any decision making about individuals, and in particular for cases related to justice and criminal identi cation, when an accused person needs to be able to appeal a decision in a meaningful way.
digital economy, the impact of ai and automation on employment, income inequality, the productivity puzzle, the economic benefits of tackling gender inequality, a new era of global competition, chinese innovation, and digital and financial globalization.
13 s.benhamou and l. janin (2018): artificial intelligence and work, france stratégie report, mars 2018. this mission w as carried out in parallel w ith that entrusted to member of parliament cédric villani, w hich, given its w ider scope, covers questions of research on ai, industrial development of ai and its applications in the public sphere, along w ith ethical issues and social acceptance.
 there is a possibility that the assessed risks may differ depending on the cultures, and it may be necessary to set a different level of accountability for each culture.
stakeholders including public and social sector organizations are building the momentum for social benefit applications
60 kenneth r. harney, “zip code ‘redlining’: a sweeping view of risk,” washington post, february 2, 2008, http://www.
a second goal of the ieee global initiative is to provide recommendations for ieee standards based on ethically aligned design.
systems should be designed to enable personalization and meta system learning concurrently without the permanent collection and storage of personal data for retargeting.
where data sets are freely available, moreover, the data may not have sufficiently large volume for deep learning, which will restrict application of these capabilities—although with advances in transfer learning and pretrained models, some capabilities may not need data volumes as large as would previously have been the case.
research and auditing performed on these systems should be accountable to the public, and should include a public log of which researchers and experts are provided access, and on what basis.
throughout the research process, we have been embedded in a community of academic researchers with partnerships that span academia, government, technology companies, and civil society.
more than 30 percent of the global population now uses social media platforms to connect, learn, and share information.
as further clarification, the european union definition of personal data set forth in the
to users, all persons must rely upon their own skill and judgment when making use of it.
a healthy society also has many layers of communities between us and government that take care of our needs.
2) ais hardware, its digital infrastructure and the relevant objects on which it relies, must aim to generate the least amount of electric and electronic waste and to provide for maintenance, repair, and recycling procedures according to the principles of circular economy.
consumers, shareholders and the general public expect companies to incorporate sustainable goals as part of their strategic planning and business objectives.
we can also join forces with science, to show students that statistical inference and historical interpretation are allied, intertwined parts of a life committed to understanding.
mit’s comprehensive initiative on technology evaluation worked with the indian institute of management to develop a framework to support teachers, parents, developers, and policymakers in making better decisions about how and when to implement technology to help educate students globally.
having worked together for many years at microsoft, it’s clear to both of us that it will be even more important to connect these  elds in the future.
“an ethological and emotional basis for human-robot interaction.” robotics and autonomous systems 42, no.
because of this, we developed our ai within a set of guiderails, these are the core principles that we believe help us to ensure our products are safe and ethical.”
these boards should be continually engaged from the inception of the relevant project, and events during the course of the project that trigger special review should be determined ahead of time.
• establishtheprofessionasadistinctmoral community worthy of autonomy from external control and regulation
whether and when we deploy ai in the civil and criminal justice systems are questions that should be answered only after taking into account the views of the people who would be subject to those decisions.
bringing us all together as a global community is a project bigger than any one organization or company, but facebook can help contribute to answering these five important questions:
a business-led consortium, scale ai will drive economic growth, bolster canada’s leadership in the global innovation race, create highly-skilled jobs, and accelerate the adoption of ai-powered technologies.
yet, he also argues that, in these dark times marked by the “striking decline” of group membership since the 1970s, “online communities are a bright spot.” at facebook, mr. zuckerberg writes, “our next focus will be developing the social infrastructure for community – for supporting us, for keeping us safe, for informing us, for civic engagement, and for inclusion of all.”
sharing of approaches: circulation of use cases for beneficial deployment of ai methods and technologies
typical examples would include anything related to personalization or individual assessment.
adherence to p7000 would mean that new tech-projects undergo an early phase of envisioning the future, applying philosophically informed decision tools to understand their value landscape.
of a technology, ethics looks for lines of moral responsibility.
internal review boards can provide oversight and guidance on which practices should be adopted to help address the concerns discussed above, and on particularly important questions regarding development and deployment of ai systems.
in canada, all federally-funded social science research involving human subjects must adhere to strict ethical standards outlined in a 218-page policy document, she said.
it’s evidence of the fun people have on facebook, and that’s it.
without  the necessary incentive structures, company-wide integration of ethical expertise and communication channels,  and  the resources for effective, sustainable implementation of ethical routines and tools, all the ‘good intentions’ in the world won’t make much of a difference in the company’s products or its employees’ success in ethical practice.
this article is part of theethical and social dimensions of aispecial feature.let’s talk about ai ethics; we’re on a deadline
the value of the data to support the business of government is currently limited by its ability to share, process and derive useful information from this data.
all sectors of society are invited to help establish guidelines on how ai evolves in the future.
the concept of inclusion has been nascent in the organizational literature for the past decade (roberson, 2006), with comparable streams of research occurring earlier in social work (cf.
for example, the use of the goal of well- being in the context of repairing and enhancing humans, predictive policing, or autonomous weapons systems to protect the public may have negative impacts on the rights of individuals or groups.
designers should always ensure their designs meet the standards of international humanitarian law, international human rights law, and any treaties or domestic law of their particular countries, as well as any applicable engineering standards,
to ensure that decision-making processes are the same for each individual regardless of group identity, and identity-conscious structures, which are formalized human resource management practices that take both demo- graphic group identity and individual merit into consideration.
modernizing the social safety net
many people were shocked by these results, because they seemed so at odds with our national idea of being a “post-racial” society.
looking ahead, one of our greatest opportunities to keep people safe is building artificial intelligence to understand more quickly and accurately what is happening across our community.
“in the broadest sense, ai refers to machines that can learn, reason, and act for themselves.
however, where they also factor in data aligning with uniform metrics measuring emotion, depression, or other factors (including life satisfaction, affect, and purpose), the device might score very high on a well-being scale comparable to the net promoter score widely used today.
eric klinenberg is the author of palaces for the people: how social infrastructure can help fight inequality, polarization, and the decline of civic life, from which this essay was adapted.
if the data used to build and run accurate and fair ai models are not representative or of sufficiently high quality—for example, if some data are partially missing, outdated, or contain errors—this can be a serious risk, as we discuss in more detail in chapter 5. exhibit 12 shows how our use cases map to data accessibility and ai capability maturity across domains.
new regulation where appropriate, including rules subjecting the market launch of new a/is driven technology to prior testing and approval by appropriate national and/or international agencies.
 it is critical that new technology not change the fundamental role of civil society.
there is a risk that if we fail to impose baseline protections — including wage protection — work will become increasingly strati ed between high paying, stable employment and low-value, low-paid, task- oriented gigs.
why do we need new guidelines for “ethical ai” when we already have the charter of rights and freedoms?
businesses that should be considering p7003 are those that are using, or plan to use, automated decision (support) systems (which may or may not involve ai/machine learning) as part of process that affects customer experience.
they’re concerns have to do not only with abstract moral reasoning, but with keeping their employees paid and keeping their business alive by making revenue and beating out competitors in the marketplace.
in pittsburgh, the montour school district launched america’s first public school ai program.
 implement transparent, meaningful ethics and accountability processes throughout the innovation lifecycle.
this has resulted in departmental silos where data has been managed for its primary use and intrinsically tied to application development.
the petition argues that automated essay grading should not be used in any decision affecting a person's life or livelihood and should be discontinued for all large-scale assessments because "computers cannot read", or measure the essentials of effective writing.
the underlying data are already extremely sensitive, and if mental health status becomes public, the exposure could significantly hurt individuals and set back their recovery, given the continuing stigma surrounding mental health issues.
like other cloud technologies, ai systems must comply with privacy laws that require transparency about the collection, use and storage of data, and mandate that consumers have appropriate controls so that they can choose how their data is used.
ai is central in the current debate on social transformation.
millian ethics provides a detailed and informed foundation for defining autonomy that could serve to help combat general assumptions of anthropomorphism
thomas friedman’s new [book][86] — which i didn’t read, but enjoyed the [review][87] that gfcc fellow and singularity university faculty [banning garrett][88] wrote — highlights three “accelerations”: technology, global flows (trade, money, people, connectivity in general…) and climate change, population growth, and biodiversity loss.
hosted by atb and ckua radio, with presentations by ai expert cam linke (amii) and professor kim tallbear (university of alberta), the workshop engaged policy makers and social innovators in deep, focused conversations about the public policy implications of ai technology.
a worker’s designation also determines whether employers contribute to and workers bene t from social safety net bene ts such as unemployment insurance and, in the united states, social security and state-paid leave bene ts.
similarly, the metrolab network, launched in 2015 as part of the white house smart cities initiative, has the explicit goal of building a network of city-university partnerships focused on urban innovation.
the lack of clear definitions regarding what constitutes aws is often cited as a reason for not proceeding toward any kind of international governance over autonomous weapons.
p7010 will identify and highlight well-being metrics relating to human factors directly affected by intelligent and autonomous systems and establish a baseline for the types of objective and subjective data these systems should analyze and include (in their programming and functioning) to proactively increase human well-being.
the impact of ai is magnified by the fact that the “digital economy” has reached a global scale, so that “countries that become leaders in the field of ai will not only capture much of the value of the systems that they transform, but also control these same systems, calling into question the independence of other countries”1.
adjacent to the direct study of the human genome, there is the large field of genetics for agriculture.
direct supervisors can have a strong impact on the experience of employees in a work group, especially a diverse work group in which different values and perspectives may coex- ist.
• aggregate metrics combine subjective and/ or objective metrics to produce one measure.
an example of this can be found in the montreal declaration for a responsible development of ai, which relied on a participatory process of ‘co-construction.’ over eight months, 15 workshops involving over 500 citizens, experts, and stakeholders have been organized in quebec (canada), and one outside canada, in paris (france).
recognizing more work needs to be done to capture the full range of corporate activities and assets that create long-term value, the group will continue to test the results embodied in this report and expect that the results will not be considered in the same way by different companies, asset managers and owners.
driving a car is a good example of this: the goals (get from point a to point b safely and at a reasonable speed) are straightforward to describe, but the environment can contain arbitrarily many surprises.
incentives applied to social good may accelerate the learning process for ngos, and monetary prizes can encourage new entrants to the field.
a/is undoubtedly hold positive promise for society.
our conclusion to that question is that a/is are not yet deserving of any kind of “personhood” — yet the very fact that the question of whether a/is could, or should, be granted such status demonstrates the rate at which the technology and the related legal and ethical questions are growing and provide two universal principles echoed throughout this document:
people have a hard enough time knowing what's fake news, or what photos are to be trusted.
there are many steps like this we have taken and will keep taking to reduce sensationalism and help build a more informed community.
to ensure that ai can deliver on its promise, we must  nd answers that embrace the full range of human hopes, needs, expectations and desires.
the common good as a goal for ai
the senior management at google saw the supply of ai to the pentagon as a goldmine, if only it could be kept from public knowledge.
additional principles would need to be defined and the means to enforce them decided with the help of public consultation.
while in practice, this is often considerably more fuzzy, the principles are ones we’ve understood for millennia, and ai’s add nothing new to the picture.
recommendation: the development of a national, or international, oversight body that conducts research, sets standards and develops a recognized regulatory framework that firms developing ai technologies in canada must adhere to.
ieee p7000tm - model process for addressing ethical concerns during system design ieee p7001tm - transparency of autonomous systems
traditionally human norms have been established by influences such as religion, politics, and economics, to name a few.
when thinking about the freemium economy, governments should consider introducing automation offsets, whereby businesses that adopt labor-replacing technologies must also introduce a corresponding share of freemium goods and services into the market.
for example, the findings highlighted the importance of stakeholder diversity as well as fair treatment initiatives, which base decision making on group membership and, therefore, may be considered identity-conscious practices.
local civic engagement is a big opportunity as well as national.
problem complexity increases signi cantly where use cases rely on several ai capabilities to work together cohesively and require multiple different data-type inputs.
the answer to the question of judicial ai doesn’t belong to judges or lawyers, or at least not only to them — it belongs, in large part, to the public.
part of an encompassing model for practical reasoning among the members of a polit- ical community.
a data protection impact assessment before personal data are collected and processed.
of the universal declaration of human rights, depending on how they
15 mckinsey & company supports ai for social good causes through an initiative that sponsors projects and seeks to foster an ecosystem of joint efforts across ngos, government organizations, technology partners, and others.
a/is that are intended to have their capabilities improved to the point where the above issues begin to apply should be designed to avoid those issues preemptively.
in fact, a third of canadians think they’ll never use ai-powered tools or devices in their work lives and nearly a quarter say the same about their personal lives (see figure 4).
to be sure, these machines can solve complex, seemingly abstract problems that had previously yielded only to human cognition.
as ai capabilities develop and are increasingly deployed in both the commercial and noncommercial worlds, the ethics surrounding use of arti cial intelligence have spurred a growing body of research.
we might use algorithms to expeditiously resolve, for example, consumer protection complaints or breach of contract disputes, but not matters relating to child custody or criminal offences.
focusing only on what is lost misses “a central economic mechanism by which automation affects the demand for labour”, notes mr autor: that it raises the value of the tasks that can be done only by humans.
in: data science for social good conference 2017, sep. 28-29, 2017, chicago, il ://dssg.uchicago.edu/wp- content/uploads/2017/09/liu.pdf
ethical considerations regarding data are often focused largely on issues of privacy — what rights should a person have to keep certain information to themselves, or have input into how it is shared?
money and intelligence are examples of instrumental values that can be put to the service of well-being, autonomy or justice.
in an emerging area like mr, where unique and specific guidelines have yet to be established, the practitioner must be fully transparent about the evidence base for the approach and take precautions to preserve the safety and integrity of the patient.
humans are not good examples for ai agents.
first, some mes trajectory data illus- trate very directly the in uences of context and the uncertainty and the “unknowns” of vessel operators.
in a recent analysis of the american workforce between 1982 and 2012, he found that employment grew significantly faster in occupations (for example, graphic design) that made more use of computers, as automation sped up one aspect of a job, enabling workers to do the other parts better.
indeed, we can embrace the challenges of machine ethics as a unique opportunity to decide, as a community, what we believe to be right or wrong; and to make sure that machines, unlike humans, unerringly follow these moral preferences.
our genomics data (“deep genomics”) and to contribute to the subsequent engineering/editing of our genomes, we should consider important ethical and governance questions.
in: data science for social good conference 2017, sep. 28-29, 2017, chicago, il https://dssg.uchicago.edu/wp-content/ uploads/2017/09/holmestad.pdf
when people have jobs, they have the means to consume, which drives production forward.
that’s why, in a recent interview, marc benioff, the co-chief executive and a founder of salesforce, told me he was in the process of hiring a chief ethical officer to help anticipate and address any thorny conundrums it might encounter as a business — like the decision it had to make a few months back about whether it should stop providing recruitment software for customs and border protection because of the government’s policy of separating immigrant families at the border.
with the rapid development of artificial intelligence have come concerns about how machines will make moral decisions, and the major challenge of quantifying societal expectations about the ethical principles that should guide machine behaviour.
however, concerns related to privacy, the ability of individuals to opt out, the cross-border nature of data flows, and the political and commercial power dynamics of this data are the key factors to consider in how to most equitably shape
 understand global markets, supply and demand of national and international goods and services, to position alberta better for economic development and trade.
for the first time in history, we have the opportunity to create non-human, autonomous and intelligent agents that do not need their creators to accomplish tasks that were previously reserved for the human mind.
have a role to play in developing accountability structures (principle 3).
autonomous systems designed to cause physical harm have additional ethical dimensions as compared to both traditional weapons
principles of data ethics that hold in medicine may not hold in  nance because the social roles occupied by medical professionals and  nanciers di er signi cantly.
given the challenges of distinguishing between social use and commercial use, the price may be too high for ngos and others wanting to deploy the data for societal bene t. owners of the data may also be unwilling to dedicate the time and resources needed to clean and share data.
2. delivering this education in scalable and effective ways, beginning with those having the greatest credibility and impact that also minimize generalized (e.g., non-productive) fear about a/is (e.g., via credible research institutions or think tanks via social media such as facebook or youtube).
although the proposed three-factor model did not reach an acceptable level of fit, the results suggested that the data could be accounted for by an alternative five-factor model.
in a physical city, a great deal of life, good and bad, is open to randomness, chance, risk, and the constant threat of encountering behavior one would rather not encounter.
algorithmic impact assessments should provide a comprehensive plan for giving external researchers and auditors meaningful, ongoing access to examine speci c systems, to gain a fuller account of their workings, and to engage the public and a ected communities in the process.
it’s not just about useful intelligence but “the ends to which intelligence is aimed and the social/political context, rules, and policies in and through which this all happens.”
designed together with an anti-displacement ngo in [71], already referred to in the conference survey, is a good example of a specific focus in stakeholders, goal, and background.
in chapter 2, we offer our initial thinking on how to move forward in a way that respects universal values and addresses the full range of societal issues that ai will raise, while ensuring that we achieve the full potential of ai to create opportunities and improve lives.
it is therefore imperative that the human worker stays in control, that we encourage critical thinking.
this multidisciplinary research will also be valuable for the design of future ai laws and regulations.
if treated as an insider with highly valued knowledge, then the older employee will have a strong sense of inclusion and the group will be able to ben- efit through improved performance.
the point is not to de- clare the problem solving approach as useless for ai striving for the common good – on the contrary, its clarity and explicitness can often prove highly bene- ficial for method and system development.
in certain use cases of an a/is, deception may be necessary in serving the core functionality of the system (e.g., a robot that plays poker with humans), but those actions are no longer norm violations because they are justified by context and user consent.
human sexuality is an important human activity, but it comes associated with difficult ethical issues related to power and desire.
what is the definition of control regarding personal data, and how can it be meaningfully expressed?
based thereupon to provably advance a specific benefit for humanity, there needs to be clear indicators of that benefit.
multilateral organizations such as the [inter-american development bank][65] and the [world bank][66] have been researching and releasing content related to disruptive/exponential technologies and are likely to launch special initiatives related to the topic.
pipeda does not cover political parties, and the use of social media advertising in political campaigns allows for a kind of targeting and manipulation that existing laws did not anticipate.
40 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
it is not clear whether there is sufficient attention paid to a/is ethics by research ethics board members or by researchers whose projects involve the use of human participants or their identifiable data.
and the big thing in this moment of evolution with ai is that things are folding in on themselves, we no longer need to explicitly program tools to do things, we just store all of human history and knowledge on the internet and allow optimization machines to optimize, reconfiguring data into information and insight and action and getting feedback on these actions from the world according to the parameters and structure of some defined task.
it is also incumbent upon members of a relevant technical organization to take all reasonable measures
first, by any version of “the drug problem” re- lating to people and their behavior, inevitably many personal data will be collected and processed.
as our lives have become increasingly digitized and sensors have become cheap and ubiquitous, more data than ever before is available for computers to learn from.
a/is technologies have the potential to negatively impact internationally recognized economic, social, cultural, and political rights, through unintended outcomes or outright design decisions (as is the case with certain unmanned aircraft systems (bowcott, 2013).
in addition to the goal to do “good”, many current ethics codes and discussions go further and require that ai contribute to the common good.
3) ais development must produce social and economic beneﬁts for all by reducing social inequalities and vulnerabilities.
this section focuses on areas of immediate attention for a/is technologists to be aware of regarding well-being metrics in an effort to aid their work and avoid negative unintended consequences.
in: data science for social good conference 2017, sep. 28-29, 2017, chicago, il http://dssg.uchicago.edu/wp-content/ uploads/2017/09/hsieh.pdf
in contrast to western ethics, buddhist ethics is not concerned with theoretical questions concerning the source of normativity or what constitutes the good life.
personas (an identity that acts as a proxy) and pseudonymity are also critical requirements for privacy management since they help individuals select an identity that is appropriate for the context they are in or wish to join.
canadian companies have a real opportunity to leverage ai for growth – but not without an inclusive work force.
is it acceptable for ai to control an abattoir?
artificial intelligence became one of the hottest tech topics in 2017 and is still attracting attention and investments.
before we concede that robust deployment of ai in the civil and criminal justice systems is to be avoided, we need to take the public’s views into account.
to acquire the skills that employers need as technology advances; by creating innovative ways to connect workers with job opportunities; and by modernizing protections for workers to promote labor mobility and cushion workers and their families against uncertainty in a fast-changing global economy.
end users would have the opportunity to layer on their own preferences in these systems, and would also be able to get an explanation and inventory of the types of objectives or value systems the a/is holds relating to established well-being metrics, including what permissioning is required for modifying or removing them.
a proactive algorithmic tool that acts as their agent or guardian in the digital, and “real” world.
a user’s interaction with a system to help them work on real-world problems, or is it okay to let them get lost in the generated world?
“towards an ethical robot: internal models, consequences and ethical action selection” in advances in autonomous robotics systems, lecture notes in computer science volume, edited by m. mistry, a. leonardis, m. witkowski, and c. melhuish, 85–96.
“everyone needs to weigh the benefit against the risks, as is true with every technology,” he said.
of commercial  rms are starting to focus on the technologies in their work for social good.
without understanding the complex political landscapes and contested histories within which social problems are enmeshed, they run of the risk of alienating affected communities or producing unintended deleterious consequences.
individuals should have access to means that allow them to exercise control over use of personal data at the time the data is used.
algorithmic impact assessments o er agencies a framework for understanding the automated decision systems they procure, and give the public more insight into the workings of automated decision systems in order to keep them accountable.
understanding how ai will impact society requires interdisciplinary research, especially in the social sciences and humanities.
yet the people whose work underpins that vision don’t much resemble the society their inventions are supposed to transform.
we need unaffiliated, expert opinions that provide guidance to the general public regarding automated and intelligent systems.
the report released today, which is available at epic-value.com, outlines several of these intangible assets and possible metrics for helping companies communicate their ability to generate long-term value to both investors and society as a whole.
while a black box solution that predicts recidivism may provide accurate results, it could be difficult to interact with and to understand exactly why the solution identified a person as a threat or
the bank of canada governor stephen poloz in 2017 credited the canada child benefit, which is a cash transfer program giving up to $541.33 per child per month to families with children, as having been the reason for a 0.5% increase in gdp,20 which appears correlated to dislodging a multi-year flat line in unemployment rate.21
how are different resources, experience, and expertise leveraged to support data science for social good efforts?
in addition to outlining rules concerning individual consent to data use, articles 13-15 in particular set out what has been referred to as a “right to explanation” when algorithmic decision-making occurs.
in his book superintelligence, philosopher nick bostrom proposes that we adopt a moral norm which he calls the common good principle: “superintelligence should be developed only
technology can be better utilized throughout the system to help students and job seekers discover promising career paths, assess their current skills, develop new skills and connect to jobs, and to scale the solutions to meet the needs of broader swaths of the population.
all technology domains are expanding at a pace never seen before and areas such as materials, genomics, energy, robotics, neuro and others display the same type of exponential behavior we have been seeing for years in semiconductors and computation.
the relevant [interests and fa- cilities that serve these interests] together constitute the common good and serve as a shared standpoint
term economic and social inclusion of the world’s population.
5) the errors and ﬂaws discovered in ais and saad should be publicly shared, on a global scale, by public institutions and businesses in sectors that pose a signiﬁcant danger to personal integrity and social organization.
data analytics is transformational in nature and change management is an important consideration for success.
when wired reviewed google’s ai research pages earlier this month, they listed 641 people working on “machine intelligence,” of whom only 10 percent were women.
how can an individual define and organize his/her personal data and identity in the algorithmic era?
we believe that the best way for agencies to develop an appropriate research access process initially would be to work with community stakeholders and interdisciplinary researchers through the notice and comment
in fact, research  rm idc reports that knowing how to use microsoft of ce was the third most cited skill requirement across all occupations.52
“this ‘ethical trap’ is for roboticists, not robots: on the issue of artificial agent ethical decision-making.” science and engineering ethics 23 (2017): 389–401.
mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
rather, it’s because business leaders have pressing current issues that they have to solve, and they don’t have time to think about 30-years out threats.
the long-term success of the  eld depends on public and client trust.
case studies function as a bridge from the conceptual level of ethics, allowing acquired ethical knowledge and skills to transfer to new, real, professional situations in which they will be needed.
even if a system cannot explain every single reasoning step in understandable human terms, a log of ethical reasoning should be available for inspection of later evaluation purposes.
such companies could not only do harm to users, but the uninformed development and over-hype of the benefits to be derived from a mr clinical application leading to negative effects could
this is evidenced by the above-mentioned reference to the use of ai on “[a]lmost any real-world problem, which is important for society’s benefit, and could potentially be solved using ai techniques”.
the nyc automated decision systems task force
while national laws may differ on what constitutes responsibility or liability for the design of a weapon system, given the level of complicity or the causal contribution to the development
but with good reason, it can also be understood as a counterpart of human ethics (cf.
of personal data as one of core principles, emphasizing that people should be provided with the practical means to understand and effectively control who has access to data about them and how it is used and shared.
the guiding principles are that the community standards should reflect the cultural norms of our community, that each person should see as little objectionable content as possible, and each person should be able to share what they want while being told they cannot share something as little as possible.
the advent of personal computers in the 1980s provoked further hand-wringing over potential job losses.
1. organizations, including governments, must put a high value on individuals’ privacy and autonomy, including restricting the amount and age of data held on individuals.
through enterprise data analytics, there is opportunity to take a “one government” approach to data analytics that looks to achieve economy of scale through establishment of enterprise infrastructure, processes and people capabilities.
exclusion of human oversight from the battlespace can too easily lead
examples of impact include safety, public health, and socio-political considerations of deploying a/
the standard serves as the basis for developers, as well as users and regulators, to design fail-safe mechanisms in a robust, transparent, and accountable manner.
five thousand miles away, the other was based at the company’s headquarters, just outside of seattle, leading the international legal and corporate affairs team.
well-being is only one value in the mix for adoption, where other values to consider would be human rights, respect, privacy, justice, freedom, culture, etc.
not as a coincidence, but also reflecting the growing focus on disruptive technologies, the recent us council’s 30th national competitiveness forum addressed disruption, advanced manufacturing, artificial intelligence and other tech topics.
while the moral machine offers four different modes (see supplementary information), the focus of this article is on the central data-gathering feature of the website, called the judge mode.
technology leaders and policy makers have much to contribute to the debate on how to build trust, prevent drastic failures, and integrate ethical and legal considerations into the design
1. respect the public’s right to know which systems impact their lives by publicly listing and describing automated decision systems that signi cantly a ect individuals and communities;
our social safety net — including the united states’ social security system — is a product of the  rst half of the last century.
facilitate public understanding of the rewards and risks of a/is.
nonetheless, these principles are intended to function as a foundation or outline of what a universal code of ethics for the data science  eld should emphasize.
in general, risks relating to ai for social good are quite similar to those for more commercial uses.
while virtue ethics questions the goal or purpose of a/is and deontological ethics questions the duties, the fundamental question asked by ubuntu would
400 million people worldwide afflicted by the disease if the devices could be made sufficiently affordable.12 other use cases include combining various types of alternative data sources such as geospatial data, social media data, telecommunications data, online search data, and vaccination data to help predict virus and disease transmission patterns, or using an ai solution to optimize food distribution networks in areas facing shortages and famine.
independent contractors typically retain more control over when and how they work, but receive fewer legal protections.
38 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
to test the relative importance of the nine preferences simultaneously explored by the moral machine, we used conjoint analysis to compute the average marginal component effect (amce) of each attribute (male character versus female character, passengers versus pedestrians, and so on)18. figure 2a shows the unbiased estimates of nine amces extracted from the moral machine data.
the site focuses exclusively on the commercial side of ai; issues of governance, or perspectives from social scientists, ethicists or researchers from the humanities are absent, despite their substantial contributions to discussion around ai governance.
is to apply classical ethics methodologies to considerations of algorithmic design in autonomous and intelligent systems (a/is) where machine learning may or may not reflect ethical outcomes that mimic human decision-making.
outcome: improved data management practices supporting the broader sharing of data.
intentional and inadvertent discriminatory inputs throughout the design, development and, use of machine learning systems create serious risks for human rights; systems are for the most part developed, applied and reviewed by actors which are largely based in particular countries and regions, with limited input from diverse groups in terms of race, culture, gender, and socio-economic backgrounds.
this report, along with more recent work being done by other thought-leading organizations in the public sector like the oecd in their february, 2017 workshop, measuring business impacts
the happiness project screening tool for business provided in the appendix could also augment this if a product shows a low or negative score in the areas of well-being.
clarification along these lines will encourage more certain development and deployment of a/is and will help clarify lines of legal responsibility and liability when a/is cause harm.
land societies were an early form of mutual: a way of sharing resources for mutual benefit.
but the disturbing truth is that mr. zuckerberg, while trying to engineer a social infrastructure, has instead created a powerful tool for subverting democracy, in the united states and around the world.
deep mind - ethics and society - director -
a large freehold land purchase would have been beyond the means of any individual, but by combining resources the individual benefits could be obtained.
our survey results point to a number of factors that may be preventing canadian businesses from using ai to solve business challenges.
if corporate, government and law enforcement autonomous entities, living and non-living, do not have the right to lie in all awareness and that individual ai entities do not have the right to lie either and all ai entities have a purpose and all ai entities are somewhat always doing scientific, engineering and artistic tasks on top of the ai-ai or ai-human interaction of the moment, i say ai entities will demonstrate science and art to humans and therefore should encourage human critical thinking.
such technologies carry with them a significant probability of costly outcomes to people and society.
all g7 countries have released their own ai strategies to promote the use and development of ai aiming to foster leadership in ai.
one question back into sharp focus: there is a prob- lem, but what exactly is wrong?
measuring and honoring the potential of holistic economic prosperity should become more important than pursuing one-dimensional goals like productivity increase or gdp growth.
shutterstock, by t p.the question of whether justice should be delivered by means of ai can only be fully answered by the public.
systems that make decisions and process data can also implicate economic, social, and cultural rights; for example, they can impact the provision of services and opportunities such as healthcare and education, and access to opportunities, such as labour and employment.
tom keenan, a professor of environmental design at the university of calgary and a fellow of the canadian global affairs institute, said he doesn’t think facebook wouldn’t really need to create this meme challenge because it already has access to time-stamped photos of its users.
already, artificial intelligence is all around us, from self-driving cars and drones to virtual assistants and software that translate or invest.
design autonomous driving vehicles), other activities required to create ai systems may simply require to be proficient at “doing the task” (e.g.
in 2007, 88.4% of employed women worked in service industries, such as health care and social assistance, and retail trade, compared with 65.5% of employed men.
many economists and industry leaders think the world is entering a period of profound technological change constituting a fourth industrial revolution.
we continue to encourage researchers to publish their results broadly so that ai researchers around the world — at universities, at other companies and in government settings — can build on these advances.
in particular, james worries that ai’s cooptation of most mental labor will usher in a “stupid economy,” defined by atrophying cognitive skills, just as technologies that replaced manual labor gave rise to sedentary lifestyles and expanded waistlines.
however, with growing volumes of raw data about people, places, and things, plus increasing compute power and real-time processing speeds, immediate ai applicability and business benefits are becoming a reality.
but even when imparting knowledge works, is it always a good thing?
existing use cases deploying ai typically related to agriculture; commercial market has supported ai solutions that could be adapted for societal good use cases.
many governments have produced formal ai strategies to promote the use and development of ai, and most include specific sections on the development of ethics regulations.11
online communities are a bright spot, and we can strengthen existing physical communities by helping people come together online as well as offline.
but how can developers create mr/a/is experiences that allow users what might be called the city option — the ability to live in, for example, a virtual world that somehow mimics the truly unpredictable aspects many people love about cities?
at the individual level, for example, finding an ai-powered solution that uses smartphones will be of little use to people who do not have them.
therefore, model a separated the items into five factors indicating (a) employee involvement and learning and growth outcomes for diversity, (b) employee involvement and learning and growth outcomes for inclusion, (c) fair treatment (combined), (d) representation of diverse groups (com- bined), and (e) top management’s support for diversity (combined).
they object to the ford government’s claim a basic income would be too expensive to expand provincewide and suggest it could easily be funded nationally through a 3-per-cent increase to the gst, a move they say “sounds like a good deal to us.”
the current plans for joint efforts between the commission, member states and the private sector are also building on existing initiatives like public-private partnerships (ppps) in ai/robotics – sparc and big data – bdva, which aim at facilitating and reinforcing investment in ai, and maximising its impact in both the public and the private sectors.
finally, let us not forget that we need to attack the choice of reflective questions and the idea of ethics pen-testing itself too – theoretically and on the ba- sis of case studies.
recent breakthroughs in machine learning and perception will enable researchers to explore bottom-up approaches in which the ai system learns about its context and about human norms, similar to the manner in which a child slowly learns which forms of behavior are safe and acceptable.
with time, it may be very hard to analyze the rapidly changing source code.
first, individuals cannot and will not read all of the privacy policies and data use statements to which they are exposed, and even if they could, these policies are not easy to understand.
it’s a combination of resources for greater individual benefit, just like a mutual.
to maximize ai’s potential to deliver broad-based bene ts, while mitigating risks and minimizing unintended consequences, it will be essential that we continue to convene open discussions among governments, businesses, representatives from non-governmental organizations and civil society, academic researchers, and all other interested individuals and organizations.
scale: whether the use of this technology will have significant impact
together with our partners, we’re working to help prepare young people for the future, especially those who might not otherwise have access to opportunities to acquire critical skills.
by “stakeholder” we mean anyone involved in the research, design, manufacture, or messaging around intelligent and autonomous systems, including universities, organizations, governments, and corporations making these technologies a reality for society.
this traditional model is being upended as more people
government portal (public) and the internal data discovery portal (internal to goa).
an ml model which sees those but not race, and which is asked to predict something which actually is tied to race in our society, will quickly figure that out as its “best rule.”
whatever your situation when you enter our community, our commitment is to continue improving our tools to give you the power to share your experience.
where business productivity may be better measured by production than through wages, some propose assessing taxes to support social safety nets and government revenue based on other measures.
 q4: how do we balance accountability with innovation so that the benefits of ai are responsibly and inclusively secured?
eagerness to get to the “work” of writing code.
however, the speed of “good enough” automated systems can enable meaningful scale ef ciencies—for example, providing automated answers to questions asked by citizens through email.
otherwise, a personal a/is could feed information to a government authority without proper privacy protection.
two recent books, cathy o’neil’s weapons of math destruction: how big data increases inequality and threatens democracy (2016) and virginia eubanks’s_automating inequality: how high-tech tools profile, police, and punish the poor_ (2017), make the case that a lack of effective ai governance can result in considerable harm.
however, the temptation to consider problems “solved” by a tech- nological “solution” remains strong, and it can stand in the way of seeing and addressing the wider social issues.
no longer synchronized with our temporally and geographically constrained ethical regimes.5 the language of medical and scienti c ethics has long emphasized respect for persons and informed consent as core values.
perhaps most importantly of all, it should be based on some clear principles to make sure everyone in the business shares the same intuitions around what matters and where cross-functional teams can focus their efforts.
incentives applied to social good may accelerate the learning process for ngos, and monetary prizes can encourage new entrants to the  eld.
the conference’s overarching vision is that of a wisdom network society:
since ai systems often do not see or understand the bigger societal picture, human judgment will be key to identifying potential blind spots and biases in ai systems.
artificial intelligence (ai) describes a constellation of technologies that hold promise for tremendous societal and economic benefit.
2. de-stigmatize and remove other soft and hard barriers to ai researchers and developers working on safety, ethics, and beneficence, as well as being open regarding that work.
• personal data and individual access control: katryna dow and john c. havens
this paper discusses ai and how companies new to the space can learn a great deal from early adopters who have invested billions into ai and are now beginning to reap a range of bene ts.
transparency as nondeception and honest design.
please address correspondence to quinetta m. roberson, human resource studies, school of industrial and labor relations, cornell university, 393 ives hall, ithaca, ny 14853- 3901; e-mail: qmr3@cornell.edu.
in the creation of systems for equal employment opportunity and affirma- tive action, konrad and linnehan (1995) distinguish between identity-blind structures, or formalized human resource management practices designed
this dual explanation is used in other types of impact assessment frameworks and encourages robust public engagement.50
his memo shows that he still thinks this way, despite his field of work being invented largely by women, who dominated it first.
on jan. 1, 1984, dr. hoos was called by national public radio and asked for her thoughts on george orwell’s predictions of universal surveillance, now that the year had actually arrived.
how do these systems affect human autonomy and decision-making through the use of algorithms when said algorithms tend to inform (“in-form”) via targeted feedback loops?
“[ai is] about making computers that can help us that can do the things that humans can do but our current computers can’t” – yoshua bengio
the “business value” of the standards currently in development (as articulated by the chairs themselves) seems to fall into the following categories:
that process starts by gathering training examples, which is often the hardest part of the task; then choosing the basic shape of the model (which is what things like “neural networks,” “decision trees,” and so on are; these are basic kinds of model which are good for different problems) and running the training; and then, most importantly, figuring out what’s broken and adjusting it.
• culture reflects the moral values and
laure monsebraaten is a toronto-based reporter covering social justice.
by may 2018, a general data protection regulation (gdpr) will apply to all businesses who process personal data of data subjects who are in the union, regardless of establishment (and under specific circumstances).
values underpinning recommendation: principles of responsible development, concerns surrounding data privacy, and desire to develop a standards set that lays the groundwork for healthy development of ai technologies in the interest of all.
where the primary reason for data collection may mask important secondary uses post-collection.
society and engineers must consider the ways
while concerns over personal data access abound within existing internet or iot environments, the nature of the imminent pervasive and immersive landscapes of mixed reality provides unique new challenges regarding the nature of user identity and control.
sometimes people must speak out and demonstrate for what they believe is right.
this new revolution, powered by artificial intelligence (ai), is adding cognitive capabilities to everything—and it’s a game changer.
unlike ai usage for commercial purposes, where the value is typically measured in dollars, social value is harder to measure across all domains and use cases using one metric.
while augmented, virtual, and mixed reality deal primarily with technological environments, a/is technologies utilizing and influencing user data in these environments present unique ethical challenges society must face today to avoid negative unintended consequences that could harm innovation and greatly decrease human well-being tomorrow.
risks associated with ai are becoming an increasingly important area of research, especially (but not exclusively) in the field of ethics applied to ai.
technology changes faster than individuals can adopt it, individuals adapt more quickly to that change than organizations can, and organizations adjust more quickly than legal and societal institutions can (as depicted in the below chart from deloitte’s 2017 human capital trends study).
the only task of the user is to choose between the two outcomes, as a response to the question “what should the self-driving car do?” users have the option to click on a button labelled ‘see description’ to display a complete text description of the characters in the two groups, together with their fate in each outcome.
complex algorithms, increased computing power and the exponential growth of human and machine-generated power are drivers for the current progress in ai.
image classi cation and object detection are powerful capabilities with multiple applications for social good
a common-sense reading would mean that if a computer is making real-world decisions without a human in the loop, then there should be some accountability for how those decisions are made.
ai can be a powerful tool for increasing access to information, education, employment, government services, and social and economic opportunities.
for ai and other technologies to bene t people as broadly as possible, we’ll need to adapt employment laws and labor policies to address these new realities.
to enable computers to comprehend meaning and answer more complex questions, we need to take a big-picture view, understand and evaluate context, and bring in background knowledge.
governments are among the most signi cant collectors of information, which can include tax, health, and education data, but private companies— including satellite operators, telecommunications  rms, utilities, and technology companies that run digital platforms, as well as social media sites and search operations—also collect massive volumes of data.
these people typically live and operate in universities and public and private research centers.
if data science continues on its path to ubiquity, then it may be challenging to de ne a truly universal code that covers its uses in such a variety of contexts.
in lives saved, suffering alleviated and human potential unleashed if we could harness ai to help us  nd solutions to these challenges.
it would be wrong to say that the modified model more accurately reflects what the world is; it would be just as wrong to say that because the world is some way, it also ought to be that way.
in all cases, and there are now several interdisciplinary approaches in robotics and machine ethics as well as a growing number
for example, the toronto declaration enunciates that end users should be more closely involved than they are often during the design and implementation phases of ai tools as that would “help ensure that systems ‘are created and used in ways that respect rights— particularly the rights of marginalised groups who are vulnerable to discrimination.’ it also insists that states should ensure that ‘existing measures to prevent against discrimination and other rights harms are updated to take into account and address the
research in machine ethics focuses on simple moral machines.
2 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
5) ais development should not encourage cruel behavior toward robots designed to resemble human beings or non-human animals in appearance or behavior.
various scenarios for maintaining meaningful human control over weapons with autonomous functions should
destroying society.the guardian view on the ethics of ai: it’s about dr frankenstein, not his monster
a set of relevant  case studies  with discussion questions that invite application of ethical reasoning and decision-making skills
while some tech companies like google have top compliance officers and others turn to legal teams to police themselves, no big tech companies that i know of have yet taken this step.
36 elizabeth bondi et al., spot poachers in action: augmenting conservation drones with automatic detection in near real time, 32nd aaai conference on arti cial intelligence, april 27, 2018, teamcore.usc.edu/papers/2018/spot-camera-ready.pdf.
a more mobile and dynamic workforce will increase pressure on social safety net programs.
5) the digital activity of users of ais and digital services should be recognized as labor that contributes to the functioningof algorithms and creates value.
• by pursuing a “seductive” mr self- help approach that is misaligned with their actual needs or has no evidence for its efficacy, the patient could miss the opportunity to actually receive quality evidence-based care that is designed and delivered based on the informed judgment of a trained expert diagnostician or clinical care provider.
consider a social media outlet like facebook and the search engine google, or the other child companies of alphabet.
norms, institutional controls, and risk metrics appropriate to the technology are not well established in
• encourage a/is development to serve the pressing needs of humanity by promoting dialogue and continued debate over the social and ethical implications of a/is.
in our use, modality refers to the type of data an ai system uses—for example, data from light sensors (that is, image and video) or from audio sensors.
the question of what constitutes a truly loyal ai agent will likely be an important one—an issue we would need to tackle soon.
in a kaggle competition, this solution outperformed all non–deep learning solutions to win first place, increasing the efficiency of electronic taxi dispatching systems and helping optimize public transport.20
• develop mechanisms for increasing transparency of power structures and justly sharing the economic and knowledge acquisition benefits of a/is.
if they house the datasets at the university as research data, they become exempted from public records laws, assuaging some of the government’s concerns.
institute of electrical and electronic engineers (ieee) - in 2016, ieee, the world’s largest professional engineering organization, established the global initiative on ethics
the honorable patricia hajdu, minister of employment, workforce development and labour: we are hosting a roundtable on the jobs of the future, and how it intersects with our agenda of innovation.
they set out to build a “personal” computer that would help people be more productive at home, at school and at work.
there is opportunity to strike the right balance between privacy and innovation..
first, the potential roles ai systems can play and the bene t they can bring are substantial.
arguably, without access to data, knowledge of algorithms and sound regulatory expertise, civil society (and even governments) will struggle to engage with and influence future cities run by algorithms.
the recep on of this dataset represents a standard example of today’s discussions in data science around privacy-sensi ve mobility datasets, and it was, at least for me, the ini al “blueprint” for iden-  fying key ques ons to be asked of a research project dealing with vehicle trajectory data.
to the point where it would be legally or morally appropriate to generally accord a/ is the rights and responsibilities inherent in the legal definition of personhood, as it is defined today.
various levels of government and the private sector alike have championed the foreign-dominated industry, supporting firms with research and development funds.
the united states has not yet, as a nation, systematically explored its full scope, studied its implications, or begun the process of ultimate learning.
(a criterion for our use cases is that they reach a threshold of having “meaningful” societal value potential, as agreed by domain experts.)
as autonomous agents, then those agents will be expected to follow the community’s social and moral norms.
daniel kahnemann’s partition between discursive and intuitive thought in thinking, fast and slow had an analogue in the seventeenth century, where philosophers distinguished the slow, composite, discursive knowledge available in geometry and math proofs from the fast, intuitive, social insights that enabled some to size up a room and be the wittiest guest at a cocktail party.
it is necessary to develop recommendations regarding the acceptability of deception in the design of affective autonomous agents with respect to when and under which circumstances, if any, it is appropriate.
this data frenzy erodes and reshuffles our societies’ fundamental rights, through the choices we, our family, children or loved ones, signal and the computed decisions that stem from such choices.
the considerations above indicate that purely sub- stantive accounts of the common good are problem-
if many developed economies have the potential to double their economic growth by implementing artificial intelligence, imagine what canada could achieve by getting a head start and leading the research component as well.
and the democratization of ai should definitely empower the 99% of human beings.
in contrast, the inclusion factors highlighted broader human resource initiatives, such as collaborative work arrangements and conflict resolution processes, which are designed to in- volve all employees in organizational decision-making processes.
• an ethics by design methodology is the first step to addressing human autonomy in ai, where a critically applied ethical design of autonomous systems preemptively considers how and where autonomous systems may or may not dissolve human autonomy.
our personal data is becoming more important and more complicated.
“global economic impacts of artificial intelligence,” february 25, 2016.
still hold up—such as striving to maintain the integrity of data about individuals—it lacks the speci city that would make the code optimally useful to current and future generations of data and computing professionals.
c. internal agency self-assessments: increase the capacity of public agencies to assess fairness, justice, due process, and disparate
• use the glossary we have produced as a key tool for synthesizing content for final version of ead, unifying terms as much as possible.
while the service failed long ago, because it was pretty much designed by antisocial people, this lack of concern for privacy was profound.
it may be good for a group of people or for
innereye is being designed to accomplish the same task in a fraction of that time, while giving oncologists full control over the accuracy of the  nal delineation.
in such scenarios, one must consider whether there is any functional difference between the level of autonomy in a/is and that of assumed agency (the ability to choose and act) in humans via the blind adherence to religious, traditional,
but this measure raises issues of its own, as it may slow down automatization, innovation and economic growth, and may create a distortion in the implementation of new autonomous systems in the industry.
we calibrate the model to 1978 data to capture a moment in which women’s labour force attachment was weak.
thus technologists feel responsible for safety issues regarding their work, but for larger social issues may say, “legal will handle that.”
social good” literature, see section 5.2. specific ref- erences to data science and machine learning / data mining will be made when necessary.
instead, we had to draw on the tacit knowledge of human readers who had rejected email for a range of reasons.
social good venn diagram is creative commons
along these lines, the european union’s new general data protection regulation (gdpr), scheduled to take effect in 2018, states that, for automated decisions based on personal data, individuals have a right to “an explanation of the [algorithmic] decision reached after such assessment and to challenge the decision.” (see boyd, 2016, for a critical discussion
for data to reach its full potential, analytics must be built on a foundation of good data stewardship and trust.
today, a company’s value is increasingly reflected not just in its short-term financial performance, but also by intangible assets such as intellectual property, talent, brand and innovation, as well as impacts on society and the environment that are not fully captured by traditional financial statements.
in one example in the  eld of ai research, a system designed to help make decisions about whether to hospitalize patients with pneumonia “learned” that people with asthma have
program areas across the organization are able to use metadata to understand and trust the data owing to strong data management practices.
anxiety about job loss to automation is nothing new, mcclure said, noting that 19th-century textile workers in england destroyed new machines to protest against employers who used inventions that allowed for faster and cheaper labor by less-skilled workers.
consider for a moment that in both places the smartphone charging on your bedside table is the device that not only wakes you, but serves up headlines and updates you on your friends’ social lives.
but the power and peril of data science is that data is most valuable when it can be reused and repurposed in many di erent contexts and in combination with other datasets.
the expert ai talent needed to develop and train ai models is in short supply in the social sector
as we move forward, we look forward to working with people in all walks of life and every sector to develop and share best practices for building a foundation for human-centered ai that is trusted by all.
machine reading can help doctors quickly  nd important information amid thousands of documents that they otherwise wouldn’t have time to read.
white house 2016 report artificial intelligence, automation, and the economy is emblematic of what’s at stake: 2.2 to 3.1 million existing part- and full-time u.s. jobs are exposed over the next two decades, although the timeline remains uncertain.
social and moral norms are more difficult to ascertain, as they are expressed through behavior, language, customs, cultural symbols, and artifacts.
a/is developers should employ value-based design methods to create sustainable systems that are thoroughly scrutinized for social costs and advantages that will also increase economic value for organizations.
if a public servant uses a word processor to type up her notes from a meeting where some key decisions were made, and then checks them with the program’s “automated” spell-checker, her agency should not have to perform an aia for that spell- checker.
to develop a group-speci c code of data ethics.
what would happen, to use a well-known hypothetical example, if such a car were obliged by circumstance to choose between killing a grandparent and killing a child?
cifar’s ai & society program aims to examine the questions ai will pose for society involving diverse topics, including the economy, ethics, policymaking, philosophy and the law.
8) any person using a service should know if a decision concerning them or affecting them was made by an ais.
as access and accessibility concerns are also intricately linked with education in communities, as well as secondary and tertiary institutions, society needs to take a vested interest in creating awareness
but if someone decides to control their drug use through an app, this can contribute to addictive forms of internet usage, and the ques- tion arises whether this substitution is sensible.
are we making the right assumptions regarding ai and the transformation of work?
 health (with alberta innovates health solutions, ahs and industry) – secondary data use initiative and opportunity for open access and platform alignment (big data).
the scholars also question the suitability of informed consent in the era of ubiquitous digital data.
if matter is to be the basis for mentality and morality, it has only to be arranged in the right way.
it can be very resource intensive to test systems that utilize massive datasets, it and would require robust data sampling to test whether they are working as intended.
technophobes have 95 percent greater odds of not being able to stop or control worrying when compared to others, and 76 percent greater odds of feeling as if something awful might happen.
in order to foster trust in ai, it will be important to build on a set of shared principles that clarify the roles and responsibilities for each stakeholder in the network including developers, service providers and end users in the research, development and use of ai.
(humans are terrible at driving cars: that’s why 35,000 people were killed by them in the us alone in 2015. the huge majority of these crashes were due to distraction or driver error — things that people normally do just fine, but failed to do just once at a critical moment.
humanities, social science, criminal justice, geography and geospatial imaging, manufacturing, social work, human rights, and many more.
we surveyed early adopters by asking them: what are/ were the top three challenges for your company’s ai initiative?
11 “acm code of ethics and professional conduct.” acm code of ethics and professional conduct.
when deciding between human adjudication and ai adjudication, we should also attend to the question of whether existing human-driven processes are performing adequately on the criteria identified by leventhal and tyler.
disclaimer: while we have provided recommendations in this document, it should be understood these do not represent a position or the views of ieee but the informed opinions of committee members providing insights designed to provide expert directional guidance regarding a/is.
adaptation describes the gap between how the majority of individuals want (and expect) to use technology to engage with companies and how companies have adapted to support those digital interactions.
those who develop and use ai systems should consider such practices and periodically check whether they are being adhered to and if they are working effectively.
the coming intelligent mixed-reality world will probably look like, in terms of the use of personal data and a/is to create an environment in which the user has actually become the product.
structured deep learning (sdl) has been gaining momentum in the commercial sector, and we expect to see that trend spill over into solutions built for social good use cases, particularly given the abundance of tabular data in the public and social sectors.
according to kantian ethics, it is never ethically appropriate to lie, while utilitarian frameworks would indicate that
in the long term, we could create “moral machines,” machines able to make decisions according to ethical principles.
the final montreal declaration on the responsible development of artificial intelligence will be ready at winter's end in 2018. several activities will take place between now and then to propel the discussions, and others will be added soon.
the employees’ agitation led to google announcing six principles of ethical ai, among them that it will not make weapons systems, or technologies whose purpose, or use in surveillance, violates international principles of human rights.
this is why two thirds of the recipients in the ontario basic income pilot were working,15 including self-employed and small business owners.16 these are hard working people and critically, these are your voters.
the development and use of ais must contribute to the creation of a just and equitable society.
this means that ai systems should be designed to understand the context, needs and expectations of the people who use them.
; solon barocas and andrew d. selbst, “big data’s disparate impact,” cal.
it's one thing to be able to understand the quirks of human conversation.
agency sta  would also gain a better understanding of their own systems and records and could then help requestors understand which documents and public records are potentially available.
transparency and individual rights
we believe it is better that people decide how to spend their assistance rather than government bureaucrats, which is why basic income is pro-free market.
with specific regard to ar, how will the digital public landscape not simply be absorbed
a data-driven government will capitalize on existing data, improve information sharing, and develop better analytics to enhance government decision making.
engineers must be able to securely access data without having to deal with multiple layers of authentication, which is often the case if a company has several siloed data warehouses or enterprise resource planning application systems.
we can only know by trying—and for the benefit of society, loyal personal ai is a good place to start.people afraid of robots much more likely to fear losing their jobs, suffer anxiety
while this tendency is theoretically unavoidable, efforts should be invested in guaranteeing that it will not flatten the diversity of human experience.
obtaining access to these types of data sets by social entrepreneurs and ngos can be difficult because of regulations on data use, privacy and other concerns around risks, and bureaucratic inertia.
with so much of data science being about exploration, trying new techniques, and using data in different ways, success in data science for social good projects is far from given.
fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (fasd) - data sharing to provide insight into social supports.
both concerns are not privacy concerns in the sense of european law (in par cular because the agent reques ng the con den ality is not a natural person).
a talking snake, therefore, must have done something to cheat the great chain of being, to elevate itself to the status of man.
but in the 21st century, culture and politics are increasingly pervaded by the automated form of statistical inference called “machine learning.” students who don’t understand it will struggle to understand everyday life.
and opaque decision making.” science, technology & human values 41, no.
artificial intelligence (ai) technologies offer great potential for creating new and innovative solutions to improve peoples lives, grow the economy, and address challenges in health and wellbeing, climate change, safety and security.
public-private partnerships involving civil society as well as new outcome-oriented financial mechanisms (social impact bonds, for instance) that help scale up successful innovations should also be considered.
across a wide range of research areas in science, medicine, and social science, review boards have served as a valuable tool in enabling
when these decisions affect society as a whole, as they do in this case, that means that as a society, we are faced with similarly hard choices.
g7 countries should try to answer the questions above collectively and work together to tackle the hard technical, social and human challenges to which they correspond.
just like people explain to each other why they made decisions, they will expect any a/is to be able to explain its decisions (and be sensitive to user feedback about the appropriateness of the decision).
[83] e. nwankwo, building trust with east african farmers: a poultry app for good.
of the progress to date has been in teaching computers to perform narrow tasks — play a game, recognize an image, predict traf c. we have a long way to go to imbue computers with “general” intelligence.
the goal of the analysis of these ethical issues and considerations by this committee regarding data usage and identity is to foster a positive and inclusive vision for our shared future.
to better understand the societal implications of a/is, we recommend that funding be increased for interdisciplinary research on topics ranging from basic research into intelligence to principles on ethics, safety, privacy, fairness, liability, and trustworthiness of a/is technology.
● technology increasingly shapes the social, political, economic, biological, psychological, & environmental conditions in which humans strive to flourish
we need a more comprehensive strategy―as a nation―to use ai to drive long-term prosperity for our country.
• irtf’s research into human rights protocol considerations.
humanists can contribute to both halves of this educational project, because we’re already familiar with one central application of machine learning—the task of modeling fuzzy, changeable patterns implicit in human behavior.
any system that will produce different results for some people than for others is open to challenges of being biased.
given the current maturity level, it is all too common within the government for discrete business units, in silo, to build their own data strategies without consideration of broadly sharing solutions across the organization.
they love that [one of the other data scientists comes from] neuroscience and that i come out of astro[physics].” moments like these, then, are celebrated as the fulfillment of one of the promises of data science – that its methods are portable across contexts, applicable to a wide range of datasets, and relevant to research questions about diverse phenomena.
perelman concluded in his critique of automated essay marking that longer writing and bigger words got better grades and that the ways to corrupt the auto-grader are almost limitless.
as demonstrated by australia’s department of human services’ use of the natural language capabilities of customer care intelligence to answer questions, ai also has the potential to improve how governments interact with their citizens and deliver services.
[17] a. tanweer, b. fiore-gartland, cross-sector col- laboration in data science for social good: opportunities, challenges, and open ques- tions raised by working with academic re- searchers.
to ensure a/is are used as a force for good, it is crucial
theme 3: ai for society: ian kerr (canada), chair– cifar ai & society council, professor– university of ottawa
yet, despite the good will of the declaration committee, the industry lacks incentives to exert systematic and sustained self-governance in ai r&d (3,4).
in research priorities for robust and beneficial artificial intelligence.
• schenker, j. l. “can we balance human ethics with artificial intelligence?” techonomy, january 23, 2017.
the strategic priorities in the 2016-19 government of alberta strategic plan and ministry business plans include a focus on shared responsibility and cross-ministry collaboration.
transparency into training data is key so that we can have a sense of what biases are built in and how to account for them.
to ensure meaningful human control over weapons.
indeed, the question of ai’s impact on work is central to the debate around ai in europe, where unemployment rates are still high following the crisis.
as ai technologies progress, we’ll work with a range of stakeholders to promote thoughtful leadership in this area, drawing on scientifically rigorous and multidisciplinary approaches.
the purpose of any community is to bring people together to do things we couldn't do on our own.
since many employers and industries have historically had disparate distributions of gender and race in their corporate hierarchies, using purely historical data to train ai models could perpetuate discrimination.
while data analysis is not entirely new to the government, the evolution of the analytics landscape will pose challenges in acquiring the right balance of skills that are required to glean valuable insights from diverse sources of data.
• adapting legal and policy frameworks which will help to favor equitable distribution of wealth, empowering competent international organizations to favor a minimally viable competition level on the a/is markets to avoid detrimental monopolistic situations.
(1998) also examined the composition of diversity climates, which was represented as having a personal dimension—individuals’ views and feelings toward peo- ple who are different from them—and an organizational dimension—man- agement’s policies and procedures targeted toward women and minorities.
while the rapid growth of the canadian technology ecosystem is impressive, canada’s pioneering activity in the realm of artificial intelligence is remarkable.
thus, building on kossek and zonia’s (1993) research, this study identifies personal and organizational dimensions of diversity climate.
creates the potential for a mobile application using image recognition to make testing accessible to all, including rural communities around the world that do not have easy access to dermatologists.28
●   using ai can help accelerate treatment in developing countries and other places where advanced medical expertise is scarce.
it’s safe to say that most current standards, laws and regulations were not written speci cally to account for ai.
• the website of the benefit corporations (b-corporations) provides a good overview of a range of companies that personify this type of culture.
algorithm collaboration between the world economic forum, mit media lab, orange, and others to derive aggregated insights from a company’s data without data leaving the company’s server.
from the outset, iterative, ethics-based approaches addressing data risk and privacy are key to identify and mitigate risks, informing better action and decision-making in the process.
inclusion, diversity and equity entails the active participation of, and meaningful consultation with, a diverse community to ensure that machine learning systems are designed and used in ways that respect non-discrimination, equality and other human rights.
conversely, these metrics could help identify where intelligent technical systems would increase human well-being as well, providing new routes to societal and technological innovation.
given the transformative impact agi systems may have on the world, it is essential that
through this process, artificial intelligence develops an ability previously thought to be reserved for human beings.
ai algorithms would likely be in great demand to help process data and would consist both of publicly owned code managed by citizens for citizens and privately owned code, perhaps made available for a price.
iso 9000. this is more of a company infrastructure thing, to make sure that the business will be sustainable (see answer on the first question).
these frames come loaded with certain versions of the notion of the common good (and many more blind spots regarding it).
if you received this press release in your e-mail and you wish to unsubscribe to our mailing list please contact press@sap.com and write unsubscribe in the subject line.ai in government: for whom, by whom?
by developing robust accountability regimes for ai systems, including the broader surrounding sociotechnical systems, appropriate trust in ai would be promoted among experts and the public.
given that a working definition of well-being including both individual and societal key performance indicators (kpis) is still being developed, this metric is general and used for illustrative purposes only.
strong candidates for the competitive spots on dssg teams we observe usually have command over one or more programming languages, substantial experience with canonical statistical methods, and familiarity with advanced computational techniques such as machine learning and natural language processing.
the disturbing material in grand theft auto and other games like it is stealing the innocence of our children and it’s making the difficult job of being a parent even harder … i believe that the ability of our children to access pornographic and outrageously violent material on video games rated for adults is spiraling out of control.
society for the better in the coming decades.3
not surprisingly, facebook’s business model and how it handles its users’ data has sparked a long-awaited conversation — and controversy — about data privacy.
ai’s tools and techniques can be misused by authorities and others with access to them, and principles for their use will need to be established.
corporate and government management should focus more on controlling its non-living resources along with benefiting from the expertise of its human resources.
principle 1 — human rights
similarly, the revolutions occurring in biotechnology and ai, which are redefining what it means to be human by pushing back the current thresholds of life span, health, cognition, and capabilities, will compel us to redefine our moral and ethical boundaries.
1. collectively mediate ai’s social and ethical controversies;
therefore, we must continually question and re- question authority, whether it is the law or a code of ethics, or else we may be doomed to serve the interests of those who crafted the code, not necessarily the interests of those who need to embody the code or use it to guide their practice.
we redefine consent regarding personal data so it respects individual autonomy and dignity?
you had to spend a lot of time understanding the mechanics of the game before that connection became understandable to you; ai’s have the same problem.
there are many reasons to think this will also be the case with ai, but the truth is that no one has a crystal ball.
and it also helped build trust in ai deployment because it involved an open and transparent process that allowed
in the predictive and prescriptive stages, this knowledge of the influencing factor can help forecast outcomes and encourage decision makers to analyze the impact of their decisions through the modelling of various scenarios.
to help people get the training they need to thrive in today’s economy and prepare for the future, microsoft is focusing on three areas: 1) preparing today’s students for tomorrow’s jobs; 2) helping today’s workers prepare for the changing economy; and 3) creating systems to better match workers to job opportunities.
"we want this declaration to spark a broad dialogue between the public, the experts and government decision-makers," said udem's rector, guy breton.
from a commercial perspective, this is understandable, as access to user data enables innovation and improvements in performance of algorithms, while the centralized treatment of data can be profitable.
the 1%) should not have more power and wealth than the 99% of human beings on earth.
but just as this will spread broadly the opportunity for others to create ai-based systems, it will spread broadly the shared responsibility needed to address ai issues and their implications.
103 (2018); danielle keats citron and frank pasquale, “the scored society: due process for automated predictions.” wash. l. rev.
the loyalty, cooperation, and trustworthiness among group mem- bers function to enhance the security of individual members (brewer, 2007).
“ai for the social good” is defined as ai “addressing societal challenges, which have not yet received significant at- tention by the ai community or by the constellation of ai sub-communities, [the use of] ai methods to tackle unsolved societal challenges in a measurable manner.”7 another venue defines the field by declar- ing “almost any real-world problem, which is impor- tant for society’s benefit, and could potentially be solved using ai techniques, [to be] within the ambit of this symposium.”8 this definition reiterates the idea of “benefit for society”, see section 2.2, and the focus on problem-solving.
(according to principle 23), “[s]uperintelligence should only be developed in the service of widely shared ethical ideals and for the benefit of all hu- manity rather than one state or organization.”)
further complicating this concern is the legitimate interest that security services have in trying to deter and defeat criminal and national security threats.
for example, some have questioned whether wages are the right measure of income to be taxed.
the speaker is sceptical about the possibility of implementing a moral code in a machine in a satisfactory manner.
• accountability: ensure that their designers and operators are responsible and accountable
what should be the role of the public and the private sectors and society in designing, developing, implementing, and controlling a/is?
the goa will need to adhere to an enterprise data strategy that provides a framework to develop and manage the technology components in a manner that will enable the program areas to benefit from data analytics.
how is consciousness to be defined in a world of machines that reduce human experience to mathematical data, interpreted by their own memories?
“it is one thing to unleash ai in the context of a game with specific rules and a clear goal,” he writes.
of course, not all automated decision systems will come to an agency via standard procurement processes.
before it leaders attempt to successfully deploy or conquer an enterprise-wide ai strategy, they must have the ability to bring large data sets together from several disparate and varied data sources into a centralized, scalable, and governed data repository.
for the use cases requiring less ai expertise, the solution builders needed are data scientists or software developers with ai experience but not necessarily high-level expertise.
we assess the impact of the holis c tra- jectories analysis methods in the tour- ism, sea monitoring and public transpor-
the heat map is not a key from which to derive absolute impact, but a comparative index of potential and relevance of ai capabilities to certain domains and their use cases.
there are promising ai programmes at several research institutions internationally that could be scaled up and better coordinated at the global level, including the controlled data sharing and access as well as test fields for experimentation.
29 rebecca wexler, “life, liberty, and trade secrets: intellectual property in the criminal justice system,” 70 stan.
finally, attendees organized into industry-specific sessions to share the novel ways industry leaders are using ai technologies to empower the american workforce, grow their businesses, and better serve their customers.
the tendency to think only in negative terms presupposes a case for interactions between autonomous machines and human beings, a presumption not necessarily based
the required data exists in some form, and the data set can feasibly be put together.
• issue 11 raises engineering concerns over the specific challenges posed by autonomous systems capable of targeting and deploying weapons.
eager professionals found themselves checking data for errors before it was processed, rather than taking initiative or proving shrewd judgment.
different disciplines (imt, analytics, big data and other dm) and diverse business areas ultimately share the same broad professional goals:
new models could use this approach, which would reduce inef ciency and confusion, and ensure that workers have access to basic protections
3. ensure greater accountability of automated decision systems by providing a meaningful and ongoing opportunity for external researchers to review, audit, and assess these systems using methods that allow them to identify and detect problems; and
the widespread manipulation of humans by a/is and loss of human free agency, autonomy, and other aspects of human flourishing, is by definition a reduction in
was it possible that human history might go the way of the incas, faced with a spanish culture incomprehensible and even awe-inspiring to them?
examples of where some of these capabilities are already being deployed illustrate how broad ai’s impact could be.
“14) shared benefit: ai technologies should benefit and empower as many people as possible.
note that the definitional duality of “good” and “problem” introduced in the previous paragraph is frequent in ai: some value or aspect of the common good is missing, deficient, or under attack, and this constitutes a problem.
the project has come a long way since the first meeting of ceos in london in early 2017. what began as an exploratory discussion between players across the investment chain, has grown into a robust endeavor: building on existing initiatives, academic work, and the advice of an advisory council, the epic participants have identified and developed metrics which will begin to help businesses better articulate the value they create for investors and other stakeholders.
over time, such successful interactions will increase usage of ai system and trust in their performance.
we are appreciative of the opportunity to provide this overview of ai and accountability in an effort to stimulate robust discussion at the december 6th conference.
similarly, prominp in brazil trains 30,000 youth each year for positions in the oil and gas industry, with 189 skill-profile “tracks” and an 80-per-cent postgrad employment rate.
on the one hand, this makes society more caring, but on the other hand reliance on artificial companionship shows a lack of social resources in this area.
another stream of research on multiple social identities focuses on intersectionality, which refers to “the manner in which multiple aspects of identity may combine in different ways to construct social reality” (sanchez-hucles & davis, 2010).
• human rights-based approaches have
model used in the target environment and demonstrated sufficient value to drive large-scale adoption by actor (for example, ngo).
as in the case of resolving norm conflicts (issue 2), we recommend that the system’s norm changes be transparent.
the end goal of ai safety is to create beneficial intelligence not undirected intelligence.
this interpretation corresponds to the strong representa- tion of data science projects at least in the “ai for social good” literature, see section 5.2. specific ref- erences to data science and machine learning / data mining will be made when necessary.
while algorithms and ai can improve on human decision making to reduce bias in some cases, the models can also end up reflecting intrinsic bias contained in the data
some philosophers believe there are no universal ethical principles; instead they argue that ethical norms vary from society to society.
the ai market amounts to around usd 664 million and is expected to grow to usd38.8billion by 2025. it is virtually undisputed that ai can have significant benefits for society: applications can be used to make farming more sustainable and production processes more environmentally friendly, improve the safety of transport, work and the financial system, provide better medical treatment and in countless other ways.
it is not only the development that needs to be addressed but the application and resulting outputs of ai that are more crucial than the development itself (although i understand that they probably meant to use “the development” as an overarching / encompassing term that includes the application and the resulting outputs … but that could be questioned).
tweets complaining about his remark spurred data scientist kristian lum to write a blog post alleging that a person involved in the incident—later confirmed to be carlin—and another, unnamed, researcher had touched her inappropriately, on separate occasions.
what kinds of expertise are sought and foregrounded in these collaborations with academics has epistemological implications for how we understand the cause of social problems and how we formulate solutions to those problems.
this will require not only helping people connect with existing meaningful groups, but also enabling community leaders to create more meaningful groups for people to connect with.
these fundamental changes in the nature of work will require new ways of thinking about skills and training to ensure that workers are prepared for the future and that there is suf cient talent available for critical jobs.
the current fiscal situation demands that the government of alberta use limited resources to help meet the growing demand across the organization.
and more in general of public research is the main instrument to achieve such an objective, other more specific initiative should be identified.
to do so, design and development of a/is should specifically identify the relevant groups of humans who
such work should rest in great part on the use of ‘on-the-ground’ expertise that arises from citizen participation.
indeed, researchers are already developing resources and materials that agencies can use to ask appropriate questions of their own systems.53 as noted above, if some vendors raise trade secrecy or con dentiality concerns, those can be addressed in the aia, but responsibility for accountability ultimately falls upon the public agency.
during the 2018 g7 preparing for the jobs of the future ministerial, innovation ministers agreed to convene a multistakeholder conference on artificial intelligence in canada in the fall.
dissemination via messaging applications.13 use cases in this domain include actively presenting opposing views to ideologically isolated pockets in social media.
“this notion that there’s only a finite amount of work to do, and therefore that if you automate some of it there’s less for people to do, is just totally wrong,” he says.
however the critical difference between human autonomy and autonomous systems involves questions of free will, predetermination, and being (ontology).
training large neural networks requires suitably annotated data from humans, which in turn needs significant effort to produce.
investment in a/is research and development (including ethical considerations) is essential to maximizing societal benefits, mitigating any associated risks, and enabling efficient and effective public sector investment.
individual consent is rarely exercised as a meaningful choice due to poorly provisioned user-appropriate design.
to: “a) have due regard for public health, privacy, security and well-being of others and the environment.
of ethics by liberal democratic values to the exclusion of other value systems, it should be noted that those same liberal democratic values are put in place and specifically designed to accommodate such differences.
the good news in regards to this subject is
it’s easy to see that the transparency needed by an elderly person so that she can understand what her care robots is doing is very different to what an engineer needs in order to certify its safety.
of course, there is also a real danger that relying on external auditing will become an unfunded tax on researchers and the a ected communities they engage with, who might be expected to take responsibility for testing and monitoring automated decision systems without resources or compensation.
mary callahan erdoes, j.p. morgan asset & wealth management ceo: “lady lynn forester de rothschild’s drive to create a better and more inclusive system of capitalism is equally profound as it is pragmatic.
the other five-factor model (b) separated items indicating (a) employee involve- ment, (b) learning and growth outcomes, (c) fair treatment, (d) representation
“i set the interest rate for this mortgage at 7.25% because of their median fico score,” they expect it to say, “had their fico score from experian been 35 points higher, the rate would have dropped to 7.15%.” or perhaps, “i recommended we hire this person because of the clarity with which they explained machine learning during our interview.”
as an individual agency works with researchers and community members to design its research access provisions, there are a number of elements that should be in place.
who: the human capital (people) – a skilled workforce, and data-confident consumers.
the sense that at least some, and likely many, taxi drivers and taxi customers are easily iden  able, the dataset contains personal data.
increasing agency expertise through aias will also help promote transparency and accountability in public records requests.
dssg is informed on some level by the implicit assumption that social problems exist not necessarily because there is a lack of political will or because some people with power and privilege benefit from the status quo, but because we simply haven’t figured out how to fix them yet.
a valuable critical take can be found in an article by danah boyd and kate crawford called “critical questions for big data.” the consequences of machine learning for the humanities in particular are still being hashed out: consult the works footnoted in this article, or my own forthcoming book distant horizons (2019).
at the laboratory, where she was the lone social scientist, she expressed concern over the effect of satellite surveillance on individual privacy.
1. adopt the stance that superintelligence should be developed only for the benefit of all of humanity.
“techno-animism in japan: shinto cosmograms, actor-network theory, and the enabling powers of non- human agencies.” theory, culture & society 30, no.
remedial steps should include community education regarding digital privacy, as well as helping vulnerable groups become more savvy digital citizens.
pelled, ledford, and mohrman (1999: 1014) defined inclusion as “the degree to which an employee is accepted and treated as an insider by others in a work system.” roberson (2006: 217) argued that inclusion refers to “the removal of obstacles to the full participation and contribution of employees in organizations,”
the question is important not just for safety reasons, but for mutual productivity.
while they make some important points, we believe this view is unrealistic and even misguided.
data is now being treated as an asset, governance is established and best practices for data management are incorporated.
with the dawn of artificial intelligence, many jobs will be created, but others will disappear and most will be transformed.
there’s plenty of talk in the media about robots competing for our jobs, but it’s important that the human realities of technological advancement are discussed within organizations as well.
second, many of the exis ng, but not accessible data have strong e ects on the rescue events modelled.
4) public and private actors must support the environmentally responsible development of ais in order to combat the waste of natural resources and produced goods, build sustainable supply chains and trade, and reduce global pollution.
consumers to manage their own data via a/is, accountability program management (pm) could be deployed to share consent solutions.
bain & company apparently elevated the status of its technology practice and created a map of disruptive digital technologies in different industries and value chain stages.
today this goal sits alongside another strategic imperative: being a company of purpose.
dordrecht: springer, 2013. a comprehensive introduction into value sensitive design and three sample applications.
if not, then we could be headed for what robert skidelsky of warwick university describes as “a world in which we are condemned to race with machines to produce ever-larger quantities of consumption goods.”
the german government commits itself to strengthen and to expand german research in ai and focus on the fast and comprehensive transfer of research findings to the private sector and industrial ai applications.
shared narratives, generated by awareness, education, and standard evaluative models are the best pathway to generating the global support necessary to meet these challenges.
overall, it is important that the governance of our community scales with the complexity and demands of its people.
their arguments, and similar concerns raised by other astute thinkers, raise an important open question to be considered in dssg cross-sector collaborations: if partners from other sectors are interested in working with academics as part of their due diligence in practicing data science ethically, how do we ensure that universities never become a rubber stamp, and that these collaborations are instead leveraged as opportunities to continually develop and improve conventional ethical norms and practices?
like the land societies of old, data would be used for our mutual benefit governed by our mutually determined conditions and with our mutual consent.
to avoid having to generate a large amount of training data at the outset, the program could potentially be scaled to first target parks like those in the pilot programs, in order to minimize the labor required for additional training.
autonomous vehicles will cruise our roads soon, necessitating agreement on the principles that should apply when, inevitably, life-threatening dilemmas emerge.
we are currently working with members of the reboot retreat, ai4all, and other leaders within ieee to help us ensure that the ieee global initiative and the final version of ethically aligned design are as holistically representative and relevant as possible.
to help achieve these goals, researchers and technologists need to embrace transparency regarding their processes, products, values, and design practices to increase end-user
what set of values should ai be aligned with, and what legal and ethical status should it have?
the poor, black people, ...) use drugs.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 1
simultaneously, governments will gain new technological powers to increase their control over populations, based on pervasive surveillance systems and the ability to control digital infrastructure.
● the surveillance society:  the development of increasingly sophisticated modes of digital surveillance, including c face, gait, and voice-recognition algorithms to identify and track our behavior in both public and private spaces; especially as used by powerful actors in society to monitor the less powerful
eudaimonia, as elucidated by aristotle, is a practice that defines human well-being as the highest virtue for a society.
we also believe that people with relevant subject matter expertise (such as those with consumer credit expertise for a credit scoring ai system) should be included in the design process and in deployment decisions.
 improved data management practices supporting the broader sharing of data;
means for human expression and often healthy escapism, as well as for social and political commentary.
in the potential status of purely virtual representations of a citizen’s identity, whether they do not have formal country of origin (physical) status, or their virtual identity represents a legal form of identity.
this use case example underscores how ai is one solution among others; machine learning and analytics solutions are also applicable and sometimes better suited for some social problems than deep learning.
with the insights from the completed pilot, make a decision to ratify or update the draft code of data ethics.
the idea of ethics pen-testing faces one key chal- lenge: that the testers be perceived as “nagging” and the tested researcher/developer feel attacked in their personal good intentions.
as more governments adopt automated decision systems, public agencies will need a way to address the accompanying risks to fairness, justice, and due process, and to include a ected communities in the conversation.
• for more on responsible data use, please see the section “personal data and individual access control.”
as we’ve thought about it, we’ve focused on six principles that we believe should guide the development of ai.
first, there is limited international or national guidance to govern this form of research.
on their face, ethics codes set out the standard for acceptable behavior within a profession.
ieee should draw upon existing standards, empirical research, and expertise to identify priorities and develop standards for governance of a/is research and to partner with relevant national agencies, and international organizations, when possible.
a macro is code that takes other code as its input(s) and produces unique outputs.
the group examined the future needs for civil law rules in connection with robotics and artificial intelligence.
in medicine, for example, misdiagnoses can be devastating to patients, whether through false positive results that cause distress, wrong or unnecessary treatment or surgeries, or, even worse, false negatives, which could lead to patients missing diagnoses until a disease has reached terminal stage.
this knowledge is often tacit for those stakeholders, and therefore difficult to articulate and convey – but without it, dssg teams run the risk of developing products and services that have little chance of being embraced by stakeholders given their respective organizational norms and constraints.
intelligence to help people.
and providing an explicit understanding of the consequences of agreeing to the use of people’s personal data.
ai for society
for example, ibm has recently launched software to detect bias and explain decision- making in ai models35, whereas google released a special tool, “what-if,” to assess
the development of canadian standards is a direct projection of canadian soft power - one equivalent to the deployment of peacekeepers and acceptance of refugees, and therefore should be sought as a both an appropriate technological, ethical and political mechanism to make the world a safer place.
finding the right balance of protection and regulation in using
the increasing popularity of vr and ar dedicated zones and their use in public sites in china, for example, is changing the way individuals interact with each other.
modality is a potentially important issue, especially for social good, because multimodal ai solutions are highly complex and may take more time and more resources to build (but might also have higher performance) than unimodal solutions.
ar/vr may be valuable in k-12 classrooms for immersion and interactivity with subject material at all different age levels.
4) research culture: a culture of cooperation, trust, and transparency should be fostered among researchers and developers of ai.
a foundation for every system being designed.
1. mapping ai use cases to domains of social good
these literatures suggest that individuals have multiple social identities that can create the basis for both uniqueness and similarity with other group members.
given the educational mandate of the university, every dssg project that involves student labor should recognize the need to compromise between pedagogical opportunities presented by the work, and the need for results.
scale ai’s goal is to create highly-skilled jobs and prepare canada’s workforce for the future by training and re-training canadians to meet an unprecedented demand for digital skills.
while programmer bias can directly impact how models are built and what data sets are used for training, we all are subject to influencing how bias plays out in ai because we all contribute interactions with these systems.
international policy in terms of data protection could find a fair balance ensuring a high level of data protection without undermining innovation and the possibility for international economic growth in ai.
through reviewing the philosophical foundations that define autonomy and ontology, the ieee global initiative addresses the alleged potential for autonomous capacity of intelligent technical systems, morality in amoral systems, and asks whether decisions made by amoral systems can have moral consequences.
▪ effective management of social sector
although focusing on value in uniqueness departs from empirical work in the diversity literature where uniqueness is defined numerically (e.g., hornsey & hogg, 1999), conceptual work on odt has acknowledged a link between being valued and unique- ness; for instance, correll and park (2005) discuss how a group is valuable if it validates an individual’s existing (unique) beliefs, and shepherd and haynie (2009) argue that entrepre- neurs’ distinctiveness stems from the requirement that they are valued within the competitive marketplace.
it’s daunting to attempt to regulate foreign tech titans like facebook, google or amazon, but people — canadians included — have something of incredible value that these companies want: personal information.
will require more work and a solid conviction that the goal is worth all the effort, for the sake of everyone.
ethics and ethical reflection need to be a core subject for aspiring engineers and technologists beginning at the earliest appropriate level and for all advanced degrees.
the dssg community’s response to these and other questions has implications not just for the outcome of individual dssg projects or particular social issues, but for society at large.
this is an area that will require further research to understand how machine learning models work and to develop new techniques that provide more meaningful transparency.
in general, updated laws should recognize that processing sensitive information may be increasingly critical to serving clear public interests such as preventing the spread of communicable diseases and other serious threats to health.
this notion of the reduction of suffering is something that can resonate well with certain western traditions, such as epicureanism and the notion of ataraxia, freedom from fear through reason and discipline, and versions of consequentialist ethics that
there is a substantive and growing body of evidence to show that machine learning systems, which can be opaque and include unexplainable processes, can easily contribute to discriminatory or otherwise repressive practices if adopted without necessary safeguards.
for crisis response, education, and health and hunger, we  nd many ai capabilities that can be deployed because their use cases require a wide variety of types of data input, and most use only one type of unstructured data.
talent could play a major role in focusing more efforts on ai solutions that have a social impact.
more generally, management and organizational theory should be extended to consider appropriate use of affective and autonomous systems to enhance their business model and the efficacy of their workforce.
you can’t cherry-pick a couple of scientific studies you like and use them to justify your arguments against diversity programs, while carefully ignoring the mountains of other scientific studies that show both how and why diversity programs are good, beneficial to all, and worth investing in.
i will argue that today, this is mostly some form of knowledge that is then fed into further decision pro- cesses.
thus, by highlighting the similarities and differences between diversity and inclusion in organizations, both researchers and practitioners are better positioned to create, understand, and support changes needed to promote equality for historically disadvantaged groups as well as create organizations in which all employees can use their full portfolio of skills and talents.ai in government: for whom, by whom?
moreover, it is well- understood that ecological crises, such as sea level rise and fisheries depletion, will not only negatively impact business interests, but it will have a significantly more devastating impact on the poor and developing nations than the wealthy and developed nations.
ultimately, weapons systems must be under meaningful human control.
the programming, output, and purpose of a/is are often not discernible by the general public.
is, or can be made, available will also provide a higher degree of trust in verifiability and a sense of transparency in a/is operations.
the system must also be able to assess whether these consequences are good or bad, or if they are acceptable or not, and this assessment is not absolute, of course.
at this point in the argument, one would normally in- vestigate how concrete projects or initiatives (rather than abstract ethics codes) define the common good.
• the un guiding principles on business and human rights, 2011.
2.3 ai and data science for (social) good
but the practice of nudging for the benefit of society, including through the use of affective systems, raises a range
in predicting how bad traf c will be, for example, computers draw upon data regarding historical traf c  ows based on the time of day, seasonal variations, the weather, and major events in the area such as concerts or sporting events.
our framework can also be used to address the implications of the recent decline in the labour force participation rate between 2009 and 2015 on the unemployment rate.
aias will not solve all of the problems that automated decision systems might raise, but they do provide an important mechanism to inform the public and to engage policymakers and researchers in productive conversation.
like the revolutions that preceded it, the fourth industrial revolution has the potential to raise global income levels and improve the quality of life for populations around the world.
this design possibility illustrates just one behavioral outcome that a robot could potentially elicit from a user.
a relevant analogy for this issue is the development of the c programming language, which settled on the use of null-terminated strings instead of length-prefixed strings for reasons of memory efficiency and code elegance, thereby making the c language vulnerable to buffer overflow attacks, which are to this day one of the most common and damaging types of software vulnerability.
to avoid issues of conflation and confusion, it is critical to note the following: human rights involves adhering to the firmly established application of international human rights law.
now, as the prospect of an omni- connected world approaches, those silos are being replaced by horizontal integrations that put the digital versions of personas and roles at risk.
ai’s potential societal impact is broad, based on our mapping of use cases to domains
the task of the committee for classical ethics in autonomous and intelligent systems
but it is also reasonable to accept these entwinements as fundamental to and an essential path for understanding our increasingly data-mediated society (e.g.
 promoting trust and understanding to allow the realization of ai’s full potential.
i guess what’s important here is that we don’t reduce our empathy for the very real pain of being in the midst of failure, of not feeling like one doesn’t have what other have, of being outside the comfort of the bell curve, of the time it takes to outgrow the inheritance and pressure from the last generation and the celebrations of success.
ai and human rights
the united states department of transportation’s (u.s. dot’s) role is to enable the safe integration of ai applied technologies into the operation of the transportation system across modes — automated vehicles, accessible transportation, drones, vertical takeoff and landing aircraft, and smart communities.
positive computing: technology for well-being and human potential.
“15) shared prosperity: the economic prosper- ity created by ai should be shared broadly, to benefit all of humanity.”
how should we manage these systems to ensure that they act for the good of society?
for reasoning) will not produce intelligence, but that strong knowledge bases are also needed.
our analysis is based on nearly three years of ethnographic fieldwork, in which we collectively have spent over a thousand hours as participant-observers of 16 different dssg projects across two universities, attended numerous conferences and hackathon-style events related to the use of data in the service of public good, and interviewed over 40 participants in dssg efforts.
at the group level, diverse work groups that adopt an integration-and-learning perspective incorporate both uniqueness (through viewing diversity as a resource) and belongingness (through members feeling valued and respected; ely & thomas, 2001).
beyond the examples we describe, our research found several organizations with ai expertise that are frequently cited in the sector for their work on applying ai to social good issues.
this “notes from the ai frontier” discussion paper is part of an ongoing series of publications that explores aspects of arti cial intelligence and its potential impact on business, the economy, and society.
how will ai and autonomous systems influence human autonomy in ways that may or may not be advantageous to the good life, and perhaps even if advantageous, may be detrimental at the same time?
the value of data analytics is in the generation of new insights among a wide range of seemingly unrelated data and in this context, perceptions leading to data minimization should be addressed.
so long as this obscene display was confined to prostitutes and adulteresses, we did not think it deserving of notice; but now that it is … forced on the respectable classes of society by the evil example of their superiors, we feel it a duty to warn every parent against exposing his daughter to so fatal a contagion.
not only the corporate use of personal data,
as the global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services that protect people and vital resources, we firmly believe that real and lasting change is accelerated when economic, environmental and social benefits align.”
because the technology is already drawing much ethical scrutiny and may raise significant ethical concerns, it is important that policy makers and the professional community participate in developing guidelines for ethical research in this area.
it has never been a more exciting time to be an entrepreneur in the rise ofai,but there’s a lot of work to be done now and in thefutureto ensure we’re using the technology responsibly.the toronto declaration: protecting the rights to equality and non-discrimination in machine learning systems
if appropriate, the agency might want to identify how individuals can appeal decisions involving automated decision systems, to make clear what appeals processes might cover a given system’s decision, or to share its mitigation strategy should the system behave in an unexpected and harmful way.52 if a harm, an undesirable outcome, or an error is identi ed, the agency should explain how it intends to correct or remedy the issue.
a/is will improve quality of life through smart cities and decision support in healthcare, social services, criminal justice, and the environment.
 executive council and public service commission – exploring requirements for data acquisition (collection), internal data sharing and tools to support workforce analytics (aps and broader public sector).
privacy and intimacy must be protected from ais intrusion and data acquisition and archiving systems (daas).
for data ethics is whether there is anything special about data such that collecting, manipulating, and applying it requires a distinct code of ethics.
for example, it can read signs and menus, recognize products through barcodes, interpret handwriting, count currency, describe scenes and objects in the vicinity, or, during a meeting, tell the user that there is a man and a woman sitting across the table who are smiling and paying close attention.8
evaluating sources one by one won’t necessarily tell us whether these computational and social systems are giving us a biased picture.
looking ahead to 2038, we can begin to anticipate the rapid changes that lie ahead — changes that will create opportunities and challenges for communities and countries around the world.
engineering and design  ethics (a field of professional ethics that develops theoretical & applied insights into the distinctly  ethical  conditions of successful engineering/design)
it can contribute to solving problems ranging from identifying fraud based on tax return data to finding patterns of insights in electronic health records that would be very hard for humans to discover.
• jones, m. l. “privacy without screens and the internet of other people’s things,” idaho law review 51, no.
there are high risks that because of the way they are designed and developed, some ai tools can lead to the exclusion of people or groups that are often already fragile.
artificial intelligence affects three major categories of workers.
technology leadership should give innovation teams and engineers direction regarding which human values and legal norms should be promoted in the design of an a/is system.
the legal reflections regarding cyber-physical systems that translate ethical concerns and soft impacts into legal challenges and regulatory food for thought are also published as a self-standing ‘policy briefing’, which might be useful for practical use in the relevant parliamentary committees:agri (agriculture and rural development), empl (employment and social affairs), imco (internal market and consumer protection), itre (industry, research and energy), juri (legal affairs), inta (international trade) libe (civil liberties, justice and home affairs) and tran (transport and tourism).
and teleological ethics that are best suited
this will give rise to a job market increasingly segregated into “low-skill/low-pay” and “high-skill/high-pay” segments, which in turn will lead to an increase in social tensions.
in support of this view, a recent study by hewlin (2009) focused on the façade of conformity, which occurs when an individual suppresses personal values and pretends to embrace organizational values.
[27] w. wallach, c. allen, moral machines: teach- ing robots right from wrong (oxford university press.
for instance, of nine significant inventions in the u.s. over the last 100 years (telephone, electricity, radio, television, computer, mobile phone, internet, tablet and smartphone) the smartphone is on track to have the fastest adoption rate from market launch to full market saturation (defined as 75 per cent of consumers).
the value of a/is is significantly associated with the generation of superior and unique insights, many of which could help to foster the accomplishment of humanitarian and development goals and to achieve positive socio-economic outcomes for both developed and developing economies.
 promote the creation and verification of accountability, trustworthiness and other ai standards, both nationally and internationally, that account for the unique opacity of many ai systems, and the power of ai to have broad and rapid impacts on society.
it then discusses using smart contract to protect those profiles, while facilitating trade, transactions and social interactions.
to resolve implementation issues will require many more data scientists or those with ai experience to help deploy ai solutions at scale.
“consultation on consent under the ‘personal information protection and electronic documents act’.” september 21, 2017. u.k. information commissioner’s office.
countermeasures include constraints on the forms the deliberation can take (e.g., that citizens recognize each other as equal and use only reasons that can be accepted by all others [11]) and legal con- structs that enable and require a country’s political bodies to protect the political order against those who want to abolish them, such as constitutional clauses that cannot be abolished even by a majority (“mili- tant democracy”, cf.
such principles will serve as the basis to make ai a technology that augments human talent.”
5) ais must not be developed to spread untrustworthy information, lies, or propaganda, and should be designed with a view to containing their dissemination.
a world of customer experiences, data-based services, and asset performance through analytics, meanwhile, requires new forms of collaboration, particularly given the speed at which innovation and disruption are taking place.
principles of robust and fail-safe design that were pioneered in other engineering disciplines can be valuable in designing and developing reliable and safe ai systems.
as noted above, a/is devices cannot, by definition, become autonomous in the sense that humans or living beings are autonomous.
with its strategy on ai, the german government fosters the application of ai in all areas of society to reach progress for the whole society and in the interest of all citizens.
a variety of surveillance technologies using funding from local police foundations.27 an algorithmic impact assessment should cover any automated decision system before it is deployed, no matter how it was acquired.
without signi cant modernization, social safety nets will not adequately support emerging models of work.
external experts from a wide variety of disciplines will need the  exibility to adapt to new methods of accountability as new forms of automated decision making emerge.67
this is the discipline that ponders the proper ways to behave, individually or collectively, by looking to adopt an impartial point of view.
ai that is trained on biased data sets can entrench and proliferate those biases in its outputs, leading to discriminatory applications.3 in practice, many deep learning systems function largely as “black-boxes,” and so their behaviour can be difficult to interpret and explain, raising concerns over explainability, transparency, and human control.4 moreover, ai systems m ay have multiple
having said that, we have observed that even when experiential knowledge is highly valued and prioritized in dssg projects, it is still a challenge to strike the right balance between the time and energy that goes into cultivating this knowledge, and the time and energy that is demanded by the computational work at the heart of dssg.
instead, the public should have been meaningfully engaged in deliberating on the contents of the declaration from the very beginning.
safety, security, and rescue robotics (ssrr 2015), west lafayette, in, october 2015.
underpinning the eu ambition to become a world leader in responsible and trusted ai, the new eu strategy takes a three-pronged approach of: i) boosting the eu’s technological and industrial capacity and ai uptake across the economy, ii) preparing for socio-economic changes brought about by ai, and iii) ensuring an appropriate ethical and legal framework.
questions have been raised about fundamental and complex topics such asalgorithmic bias,transparency,governance, andinclusion.
put simply, we aim to develop ai in order to augment human abilities, especially humankind’s innate ingenuity.
2 mayer-schönberger v and cukier k (2013) big data: a revolution that will transform how we live, work, and think.
the moral machine was deployed to initiate such a conversation, and millions of people weighed in from around the world.
furthermore, in light of the difficulty of finding satisfactory solutions to moral dilemmas and the sheer size of the potential moral hazard that one team would face when deploying an agi-level system, technologists should pursue ai designs that would bring about beneficial outcomes regardless of the moral fortitude of the research team.
the important question is not whether algorithms will do good, but rather who they will serve and who will get to take part in shaping them.embankment project for inclusive capitalism
the general public and civil institutions are more aware about the ethical implications of the use of ai and r&a systems in the daily life.
of mortgages to people who live within a particular zip code as an allocative harm.60 automated decision systems used in the public sector are susceptible to both kinds
right to remove the data if/when leaving the employment.
to a/is, and adopt rules and standards that ensure effective human control over those decisions.
artificial intelligence has become a source of national pride for canada’s tech community.
it also means that countries and regions will benefit directly, economically, from fostering the development of competitive firms in the ai field.
the private sector should integrate csr (corporate social responsibility) at
“with manufacturing and services increasingly done by intelligent machines located in the ai superpowers, developing countries will lose the one competitive edge that their predecessors used to kick-start development21.” indeed, a 2016 study conducted by the international labour organization found that more than half the textile factory jobs in five southeast asian countries were “at high risk of automation22.” but the rise of ai may also have a strong effect in some parts of industrialized nations.
this one-day event will build upon the objectives outlined in the g7 innovation ministers’ statement on artificial intelligence (ai), bringing together industry, research institutions and civil society stakeholders for a deeper exploration of practical perspectives to inform collective action.
both social costs and also advantages that may increase economic value for organizations.
if they know immediately how much money they will lose if a new user would not consent to an external data exchange, they have grounds to pass the cost to new consumers as a privacy offset product.
we will seek to avoid unjust impacts on people, particularly those related to sensitive characteristics such as race, ethnicity, gender, nationality, income, sexual orientation, ability, and political or religious belief.
beyond our products, we’re using ai to help people tackle urgent problems.
a. establishing scope: de ne “automated decision system” 11 challenge: drawing boundaries around systems
based on definitions of diversity included in prior diversity research as well as reported by respondents in study 1, diversity was described in the survey as the spectrum of human similarities and differences.
first of all, ai enables the execution of tasks that were previously impossible to carry out as they were either too time-consuming or not economically viable (control of 24/7 services such as health monitoring, etc.).
i hope we have the focus to take the long view and build the new social infrastructure to create the world we want for generations to come.
laws are constantly being tweaked to support new ai applications (and, yes, sometimes big brother too).
the unification of multiple administrative datasets in combination with advanced analytics techniques and technologies will advance problem solving capabilities, thus improving predictive analytics to reveal insights that will help better assess risks, detect fraud and will drive evidence-based decision making.
the committee will address the potential for autonomous capacity of artificially intelligent systems, posing questions of morality in amoral systems, and asking whether decisions made by amoral systems can have moral consequences.
moreover, the development and delivery of a/is should adopt a human rights approach
the second challenge makes sample size requirements even more daunting: if we are to make progress towards universal machine ethics (or at least to identify the obstacles thereto), we need a fine-grained understanding of how different individuals and countries may differ in their ethical preferences16,17.
an enterprise approach to analytics will help develop and promote the culture of analytics in the goa, facilitate policy development and achieve the following outcomes:
second, nevertheless, eleven contributions are coupled with an explicitly identified and specific intervention, such as apps designed to detect health problems [79] or apps to incentivize people to cycle to work [80].
keywords:  inclusion; diversity; work group; exclusion; optimal distinctiveness theory
recommendation 1: establish registered, personal profiles as a means for people to share their personal information
as with any technology deployment for social good, the scaling up and successful application of ai for societal bene t will depend on the willingness of relevant groups of stakeholders, including collectors and generators of data as well as governments and ngos, to engage.
as a component of the imt strategic plan, open government has finalized the enterprise data analytics strategy.
and many baby boomers are choosing to work later in life, often through part-time work.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 15
a possible world which embodies a collection of positive values.
in health, for example, ai-enabled wearable devices, which can already detect potential early signs of diabetes through heart rate sensor data with 85 percent accuracy, could potentially contribute to helping more than 400 million people afflicted by the disease worldwide if made sufficiently affordable.
c, association between cultural distance from the united states and mm distance (distance in terms of the moral preferences extracted from the moral machine) from the united states (n = 72).
and for the benefit of all humanity rather than one state or organization.”
this is particularly true for morally significant actions or omissions: an ethical reasoning system should
it becomes incumbent on a global-wide community to recognize which sets of values guide the design, and whether or not a/is
another set of metrics that could be used in a more detailed schema are the kingdom of bhutan’s nine domains of well-being: psychological well-being, health, community vitality, living standards, governance, environment diversity, culture, education, and time use.
number 7 illustrates the con- textual nature of problem definition: this may be an addict’s view when on withdrawal, even if the same person would under other circumstance worry more about the negative effects on health and life prospects.
ai is the enabling technology behind cortana, microsoft’s personal digital assistant.
• developing mechanisms for increasing transparency of power structures and justly sharing the economic and knowledge acquisition benefits of robotics/a/is.
by making a profit we ensure we give back more valueto society than we use to serve customers.we also need to create jobs, make sure freemarkets workand improve our communities.
researchers at microsoft, other technology  rms, universities and governments have drawn upon this combination of the availability of this data, and with it ready access to powerful computing and breakthroughs in ai techniques — such
this is what makes google’s declarations of ethical principles for its use of ai so significant, because it seems to be the result of a revolt among the company’s programmers.
assuming the affective systems have a minimum subset of configurable ethical values incorporated in their knowledge base:
by treating a mathematical process as if it were a thought process, and either trying to mimic that process ourselves or merely accepting the results, we are in danger of losing the capacity that has been the essence of human cognition.
as in interpersonal relationships, businesses can listen to this feedback and use it to provide more relevant products, services, and experiences.
the fourth track of the ai for good global summit, trust in ai, in its descriptions and contributions likewise considers the goodness of ai as a given and the need to build trust as a way to convince people of this.
it seems likely that many near-term ai policy and regulatory issues will focus on the collection and use of data.
by thinking about these effects early on, engaging diverse perspectives, and communicating new knowledge and insights responsibly and broadly, we will be better able to respond to the new challenges ai presents and take full advantage of the opportunities for human advancement and understanding.
governments themselves are also struggling to assess how these systems are used, whether they are producing disparate impacts, and how to hold them accountable.
examples include papers explaining how the research addresses specific computational problems, opportunities, or issues underlying sustainability challenges and papers describing a sustainability challenge or application that can be tackled using
© 2017 montreal declaration for a responsible development of ai
other implementation challenges may depend on the willingness of  nancial institutions to provide a mobile money infrastructure and support the use of alternate credit ratings, and on providing  nancial education and transparency to customers.
once well-being metrics are widely recognized as a directional requirement for society, conceptually, one would like such measures
1) ais hardware, its digital infrastructure and the relevant objects on which it relies such as data centres, must aim for the greatest energy efﬁciency and to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions over its entire life cycle.
not only will it boost the country’s ai capabilities, it will also strengthen canadian companies and spur growth in the national economy.
to this end, we appreciate that the declaration committee organizes gatherings in public libraries and cegeps to engage diverse publics in thinking about responsible ai development, but we fear that the declaration, drafted prior to these initiatives, may rigidly frame public discussions.
thus, buddhist ethics contains potential for conflict with western ethical value systems which are founded on ideas of questioning moral and epistemological assumptions.
in another project, the lead researcher suggested the team apply a particular kind of algorithm to the problem they were trying to solve, but the students didn’t readily understand the way the algorithm worked, and instead went with a solution that was more intuitive to them.
this process is important to understand in terms of ethics for artificial intelligence since it is, paradoxically, the kind of autonomy that
in the life-world model, though the name seems to be curious in this context, because there is no real life of a machine.
is the foundation for solutions using this new technology, it’s imperative that developers understand how bias can be introduced into ai systems and how it can affect ai-based recommendations.
the first few pages of leo breiman’s “statistical modeling: the two cultures” give a good brief history of the philosophical tensions associated with machine learning.
protecting privacy, such as differential privacy, homomorphic encryption, and techniques to separate data from identifying information about individuals and for protecting against misuse, hacking or tampering.
“now it will go in the books as a leading case study of how politics pretends to be interested in social research but in reality bypasses the scientific community in its policy process,” he said.
no entities, living or non-living, part of the law enforcement body or not, should have the right to build or the right to use autonomous weapons.
evaluation of a/is must carefully assess potential biases in the system’s performance that disadvantage specific social groups.
yet while the increasing rate of technological innovation is a significant part of the digital disruption challenge facing companies, it is not the problem in and of itself.
in other words, the way it has always been done is better, and the harder you have to work to keep doing it the old way, the more it proves you really care.
while a black box solution that predicts recidivism may provide accurate results, it could be dif cult to interact with and to understand exactly why the solution identi ed a person as a threat or
data are made available at no cost for purposes of disaster management.
for example, an individual’s name in a company directory is not typically considered sensitive and should probably require less privacy protection than if it appeared in an adoption record.
the evaluation should be detailed so that outside researchers and experts can adequately scrutinize the system and its potential impact, and provide a non-technical summary for the general public.
positive impact on those communities.51 ful lling this requirement of the aia process would require an agency to engage those communities early on, even before the formal notice and comment process.
they have meaningfully di erent obligations to their clients and society, and so it is reasonable to expect that their uses of big data for good and ill will similarly vary.
the purpose of the current article is to investi- gate more closely the notion of ai for the common good by drawing on a wider literature, and to start a deeper discussion in the ai community about this
these tests must be open to the relevant public authorities and stakeholders.
neither human beings nor human-generated data were part of its process of self-learning.
in response to social progress and new legal measures, and, in smaller communities, in response to complaints or new opportunities.
"the theme of artificial intelligence will progressively affect all sectors of society and we must have guidelines, starting now, that will frame its development so that it adheres to our human values ​​and brings true social progress. "
by modeling the potential positive or negative impacts of technologies across a full spectrum of financial, environmental, and social impacts (e.g., a “triple bottom line” well-being indicator model) a/is technologists can better avoid negative unintended consequences for human well-being, while increasing innovation and positive human well-being for their work.
the development of ai should promote justice and seek to eliminate all types of discrimination, notably those linked to gender, age, mental / physical abilities, sexual orientation, ethnic / social origins and religious beliefs.
sap guiding principles reflect the company’s commitment to comply with the highest ethical standards.
emerging  eld of data privacy for rich spatio- ferent use cases?
17) non-subversion: the power conferred by control of highly advanced ai systems should respect and improve, rather than subvert, the social and civic processes on which the health of society depends.
5. educate the public on societal impacts of a/is
section 2 — governmental use of a/is: transparency and individual rights
advances in ai will have transformative impacts in a wide range of fields, including healthcare, security, energy, transportation, manufacturing, and entertainment.
in many cases, sensitive or monetizable data that could have societal applications are privately owned, or only available in commercial contexts where they have business value and must be purchased, and
5) ais use should not contribute to increasing stress, anxiety, or a sense of being harassed by one’s digital environment.
over the ensuing decades, these principles — thanks in large part to their fundamental and universal nature — helped frame a series of federal and state laws governing the collection and use of personal information within education, healthcare,  nancial services and other areas.
there is a need for greater coordination and collaboration within the public service which will result in reduced duplication of data, associated technical solutions, and higher efficiency.
a, world map highlighting the locations of moral machine visitors.
in other cases, an ai system can perform with greater accuracy than a human (often by processing more information), for example early identi cation of plant disease to prevent infection of
as noted above, the relationship between assumed moral customs (mores), the ethical critique of those customs (i.e., ethics), and the law is an established methodology in scientific communities.
the spot system, built by researchers from the university of southern california’s center for arti cial intelligence in society and piloted by the organization air shepherd, automates the process of detecting poachers in infrared video feeds, freeing park rangers for other tasks and increasing the reliability of surveillance (see illustration, “how ai can be deployed to catch wildlife poachers”).36
be found in sciencewise — the u.k. national center for public dialogue in policy-making involving science and technology issues.
the study is intended tosupport the european parliament, the parliamentary committees and other parliamentary bodies, as well asindividual members, in their anticipation of possible future concerns regarding developments in cps, robotics and artificial intelligence.
but, as laura tyson of the university of california, berkeley, warns, the design of new “smart machines” is less important than “the policies surrounding them.” tyson notes that technological change has, in fact, already been displacing workers for three decades, accounting for an estimated 80% of the job losses in us manufacturing.
2) from the moment algorithms are conceived, ais development and deployment must take into consideration the multitude of expressions of social and cultural diversity present in the society.
the talent challenge is twofold: a shortage of workers with high-level ai expertise—including (but not limited to) phd-level experience—who are able to develop and train more complex models and a lack of data scientists, translators, and other ai practitioners who can
her 1972 book, “systems analysis in public policy: a critique,” cast a critical eye on the prevailing methods for evaluating education, waste management and health care.
that’s a good thing, too, because experts predict that “more than 85 percent of customer interactions will be managed without a human by 2020.” a friendly, informative bot on your website makes your customers happy while freeing up time for your agents to handle more unique, challenging needs.
presentation at the ai for good global summit 2018, geneva, may 15- 17, 2018, https://www.itu.int/en/itu- t/ai/2018/documents/presentations/ francesca%20bria.pdf
in fact, the fuzzy, context-specific models produced by machine learning have a lot in common with the family resemblances historians glimpse in culture.
“as canadian business leaders … we see a guaranteed basic income as a business-friendly approach to address the increasing financial precarity of our citizens and revitalize the economy,” says the letter, co-authored by paul valleé of ottawa-based pythian, a global data services company with more than 400 employees worldwide.
he argues that the process of establishing a code provides opportunities for critical re exivity that are perhaps more important than the  nal product: “this process of self-criticism, codi cation, and consciousness-raising reinforces or rede nes the profession’s collective responsibility and is an important learning and maturing experience for both individual members and the profession.”8
as we consider potential development and uses of ai technologies, we will take into account a broad range of social and economic factors, and will proceed where we believe that the overall likely benefits substantially exceed the foreseeable risks and downsides.
description: each issue of the annals of the american academy of political and social science, guest edited by scholars and experts in the field, presents more than 200 pages of timely, in-depth research on a significant topic of interest to its readership which includes academics, researchers, policymakers, and professionals.
will arise most directly when one  rm seeks to buy another and competition authorities need to consider whether the combined  rms would possess datasets that are so valuable and unique that no other  rms can compete effectively.
• social and news networks (media and content data)
home robot to nudge older people to stay social and active.
value to combat the rising issue of dirty data.
in addition, because ai should augment and amplify human capabilities, people should play a critical role in making decisions about how and when an ai system is deployed, and whether it’s appropriate to continue to use it over time.
as well as discrimination-and-fairness issues (e.g., fair treatment of all stakeholders, equitable systems, affirmative action initiatives, etc.).
of knowledge by establishing a platform for mutual discussion and understanding.
• apply “consent” to further certify artificial intelligence legal and as ethics doctrine — legal consent principles could be applied to a larger self-regulatory or co-regulatory artificial intelligence ethics certification framework for businesses
in this first phase of the declaration, we have identified seven values: well-being, autonomy, justice, personal privacy, knowledge, democracy and responsibility.
while it is critically important to consider, understand, and apply accepted ideologies such as buddhism in a/is, it is both necessary to differentiate the methodology from western ethics, and respectful to buddhist tradition
mapping usage frequenty of ai capabilities to ten social impact domains identifies patterns of the relevance and applicability of ai for social good.
but how are these elements (the “that”, “benefit”, “society”) de- fined?
behavioral scientists and members of the target populations will be particularly valuable when devising criterion tasks for system evaluation.
for women, being in a male-traditional occupation, working in environments in which women are rare, and being subject to stereotypes of women’s characteristics have been shown to affect per- ceived fit with jobs and occupations (heilman, 1983, 1995, 2001), which can create an envi- ronment in which women are given fewer opportunities.
it is incumbent upon a member to engage in reflective judgment to consider whether or not his or her contribution will enable or give rise to aws and their use cases.
governments must also balance support for innovation with the need to ensure consumer safety by holding the makers of ai systems responsible for harm caused by unreasonable practices.
we design such systems to be as safe as possible, extending beyond commonplace human abilities to calculate, predict, and react to external threats in real time.
“human responsibility for autonomous agents.” ieee intelligent systems 22, no.
a set of shared norms helps to de ne the boundaries of a professional community and identi es the standards that the public should demand of practitioners within that profession.
ieee p7008tm - standard for ethically driven nudging for robotic, intelligent, and automation systems ieee p7009tm - standard for fail-safe design of autonomous and semi-autonomous systems
it aims at covering a few key cross-sectorial themes to reﬂect on the transition towards a society in which ai helps promote the common good: algorithmic governance, digital literacy, digital inclusion of diversity and ecological sustainability.
in the future, if one’s consciousness is still “alive” in some sense and able to engage in human activities, is that person still legally alive?
the continuing dif culty of making some ai-produced decisions transparent and explainable could also hamper its acceptance and use, especially for sensitive topics such as criminal justice.
international standards organization (iso) - iso has recently created a new technical subcommittee in the area of ai (sc 42), which is working to develop foundational standards as well as addressing issues related to safety and trustworthiness.
the “skills blocks” approach that has been developing for several years now within the training system and among certifying bodies may well provide an answer to this major issue: a qualified or certified individual may only have to adapt his/her skills via a complementary training “module” without having to complete a whole qualifying or certifying program19.
researchers, advocates, and policymakers are debating when and where automated decision systems are appropriate, including whether they are appropriate at all in particularly sensitive domains.7 questions are being raised about how to fully assess the short and long term impacts of these systems, whose interests they serve, and if they are su ciently sophisticated to contend with complex social and historical contexts.
• see the personalized privacy assistant for a project applying these principles.
democracy will depend on individuals retaining power over their personal information and accessing trustworthy ai tools as a counterbalance to the demands of technology that works for the benefit of all others.
of your code among stakeholders and have them indicate existing practices that would require modi cation if the code were to be rati ed.
in this way, companies have ethical or value-related challenges on their radar from the start of a project and can mitigate many risks early on at the technical level.
a/is researchers and developers should be encouraged to freely discuss ai safety solutions and share best practices with their peers across institutional, industry, and national boundaries.
knowing that your work will not be seen by the human eye takes all the satisfaction out of essay writing
as good and evil, right and wrong, virtue and vice and attempt to carry these inquiries into artificial systems decision-making processes.
since these images could be automatically uploaded to the cloud, application developers will need to take steps toward protecting data privacy.
in an analysis conducted for the council for big data, ethics & society, jacob metcalf identi ed the inward—and outward-facing goals of professional ethics codes that may be applicable for data ethics:9
the implementation of a new worker classi cation for “independent worker” that would fall between employee and independent contractor; the creation of a safe harbor for income and employment tax purposes for certain workers; the expansion of collective bargaining and other protections to certain classi cations of on-demand workers; and the adoption of voluntary minimum industry standards for worker protections.
3) public institutions must not use ais to promote or discredit a particular conception of the good life.
• meeco life management platform.
most people living in poverty are working, including about two-thirds of participants in the basic income project.
developing strategies for informing and engaging the public on a/is benefits and challenges are critical to creating an environment conducive to effective decision-making.
vision: the government of alberta will be a leader in the use of data analytics to drive efficiency, collaboration, innovation and effective policy making in the public sector.
the evolution of information privacy laws in the united states and europe offers a useful model.
thus, there was in general no attempt at framing the social prob- lem in different ways (see q1 above), and no discus- sion of whether and how the selected social goal could translate into different computational goals.
with more options than ever before, small businesses are building powerful ai strategies without having to hire data scientists or costly marketing specialists.
the difficulties of dealing with cross-jurisdictional issues are not new, characterizing a number of issues in the digital age, privacy being chief among them.
because, when mr. zuckerberg wrote his open letter, he already knew what facebook would not acknowledge until the u.s. congress effectively forced a confession: during the most divisive and consequential presidential election in recent history, russian propagandists had used mr. zuckerberg’s so-called social infrastructure to buy more than three thousand fake news ads that reached at least 10 million people.
• metz, t. “african ethics and journalism ethics: news and opinion in light of ubuntu,” journal of media ethics: exploring questions of media morality 30 no.
research, and user experience studies – all rpractices that systematically put subjective human experience at the center of research and design (for primers on these approaches, see, respectively, robertson & simonsen, 2013; reason & bradbury, 2001; baxter, courage, & caine, 2015).
thus, the second component of an algorithmic impact assessment would require each agency to publicly disclose proposed and existing automated decision systems, including their purpose, reach, internal use policies, and potential impacts on communities or individuals.
humanists have a lot to contribute to this struggle, since we know the monster’s past and understand its slipperiness better than anyone else.
ai is already being leveraged in research to tackle societal “moon shot” challenges such as curing cancer and climate science.
pii protections are often related to the u.s. fourth amendment, as the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects.
“what is data ethics?” philosophical transactions of the royal society 374, no.
how personal data is collected and used to enable a/is.
having ai replace human adjudicators may not even be technically possible: some observers such as frank pasquale and eric l. talley have taken pains to point out that there is an irreducible complexity, dynamism and nonlinearity to law, legal reasoning and moral judgment, which means these matters may not lend themselves to automation.
must be explicitly called out, such that the individual can make an informed choice, and/or assess the balance of value in context.
the approach is to combine creating a large-scale democratic process to determine standards with ai to help enforce them.
b. public notice of existing and proposed automated decision systems: alert communities about the systems that may affect their lives
thus, our framework and the second half of our definition of work group inclusion argues for value in uniqueness, consistent with (1) the optimal distinctiveness model’s focus on satisfaction of uniqueness needs, (2) the emphasis in existing inclusion literature on individuals being valued for their unique perspectives, and (3) evidence from the stigma literature that devalued iden- tities are hidden so as to avoid rejection by work groups.
think of the most complex and pressing issues that humanity faces: from reducing poverty and improving education, to delivering healthcare and eradicating diseases, addressing sustainability challenges such as growing enough food to feed our fast-growing global population through to advancing inclusion in our society.
however, sophisticated manipulative technologies utilizing a/is can also restrict the fundamental freedom of human choice, and
a pia should also address other types of privacy, e.g., of the person, of personal behavior, of personal communications, and of location.
conversely, these metrics could help identify where a/is would increase human well-being, providing new routes to societal and technological innovation.
and data — and openness and transparency — will be needed to ensure the technology’s responsible progress.
• evaluation of when and how an ai system should seek human input during critical situations, and how a system controlled by ai should transfer control to a human in a manner that is meaningful and intelligible.
importantly, then, although the team’s leadership prioritized and foregrounded the sort of experiential knowledge that we are advocating for here, their experience points to open questions about how to strike the right balance between the value of this work and the value of producing code for immediate use, and how to meaningfully incorporate the requisite experiential knowledge into dssg projects that have ambitious goals and highly constrained deadlines.
capability  education justice crisis response social sector infrastructure
ultimately, the term artificial intelligence may be a misnomer.
the premature end of ontario’s basic income pilot project is a serious breach of canadian and international research ethics that harms canada’s reputation on the world stage, say academics and activists from across the globe.
as with the great advances of the past on which it builds — including electricity, the telephone and transistors — ai will bring about vast changes, some of which are hard to imagine today.
in terms of the possible consequences for this kind of mass data collection, o’neill said it could be used for good, such as technology to identify children missing for a long time, or for more mundane purposes, such as targeted advertising.
risks and benefits of ai on work and employment
context is key for explainability and transparency, and business and risk teams should assess context and communicate required constraints to technology teams.
• aggregate and provide visualization options for terms of service and privacy statements — one way to provide better education and improved user experience, with respect to legal terms of use, is to offer visual analytics tools as a consumer control point of reference.
another major societal issue — and the subject of much ongoing debate — is whether a/is should have, or could develop, any sense of ethical behavior.
the data may have business value and be commercially available
back in southern california in year 2000, i founded humanaware.org (nowadays montreal based) precisely to ensure ai would benefit everyone, the greater number of individuals on the planet.
“2.04 bases for scientific and professional judgments psychologists’ work is based upon established scientific and professional knowledge of the discipline.”
to promote trustworthy and responsible ai.
consumers are starting to worry about the lack of control over their data and the lack of insight they have into the rationale and mechanisms that define their agency in the big data environment, and they’ve begun to act by seeking out services and businesses that provide them with control and agency.
artificial intelligence has the potential to change how businesses build and strengthen relationships with their customers.
future a/is may have the capacity to impact the world on a scale not seen since the industrial revolution.
in which these rights may be threatened by the deployment and/or use of aws, during armed conflict, policing, or other security operations.
the hospital uses the principle of implicit consent and is under no obligation to even make the individual patients aware of the deal.
on the other side of the coin, ai requires enterprises to use customer data in new ways.
these types of relationships create an obliga- tion to reciprocate favorable treatment and avoid harmful actions consistent with the norm of reciprocity (gouldner, 1960) and are associated with enhanced job performance and
the contribution of a/is to human and sustainable development in developing countries, and in particular extreme poverty eradication, is inherently connected with
“value sensitive design and information systems,” in early engagement and new technologies: opening up the laboratory (vol.
in this age of disinformation, where fake news thrives and the public has trust issues with technology, google designed a machine that can deceive humans.
determining who ought to face greater risks within a mobility system is a weighty task with broad implications.8 the process by which we ought to make that decision, as well as the responsibility for that decision and its systemic consequences, may exceed the capabilities of existing regimes (torts, consumer protection, etc.
big picture stories that make sense of history’s bacchanal march into the apocalypse.
these principles should ensure that ai systems are fair, reliable and safe, private and secure, inclusive, transparent, and accountable.
in the dssg projects we’ve observed, where academic team members come from a wide range of disciplinary backgrounds, they often recognize their lack of knowledge about the issue to which they have been assigned, and instinctively begin their forays into these new research questions by reviewing relevant scholarly literature.
the a/is community should work to ensure that this tradition of openness be maintained when it comes to safety research.
to achieve this goal, in the current version of ethically aligned design (ead2v2), we identify pertinent “issues” and “candidate recommendations” we hope will facilitate the emergence of national and global policies that align with these principles.
there are significant and potentially deleterious implications to replacing human adjudicators with ai.
donors including technology company executives have stepped up funding for major scholarship programs in the past months, including at mit, harvard’s berkman klein center for internet and society, stanford university, and the university of toronto, to study the implications of ai, including how it will affect people’s lives and serve humanity.1
opportunity: aias and public records requests
as the demand for data analytics grows within the government, fragmented and short term solutions have become luxuries which our economy can no longer afford.
ai development should be required to meet the same degree of external scrutiny as cyber-security mandates, with individual firms being forced to meet external standards.
linkedin has also shared data with government agencies in new york, los angeles, chicago, louisville, new orleans, seattle, san francisco and cleveland to help them improve issues such as student retention and youth unemployment, identify job biases, and understand supply and demand for job skills.
artificial intelligence can help provide a better approach.
some publics, however, are wary about such developments that fail to integrate user perspectives and desire privacy protection through social or regulatory means (1).
ai agents will be more efficiently learning from other ai agents than from human activities.
as a result of social identification, people become attached to one another through their common connection to the social group.
the free access which many young people have to romances, novels, and plays has poisoned the mind and corrupted the morals of many a promising youth; and prevented others from improving their minds in useful knowledge.
new, powerful technologies promotes a range of social goods, and may spur development across the economies and society through its numerous applications, including in commerce, employment, healthcare, transportation, politics, privacy, public safety, national security, civil liberties, and human rights.
a second ques on related to privacy is related to the referent of the data.
a useful dis nc on is that between data owner, data respondent (the data subject, although not always in its legal sense of an individual person), and data user; and this dis nc on has implica ons for the choice of data-priva- cy protec on methods (domingo-ferrer, 2007).
what is needed is an approach that promotes the development of technologies and policies that protect privacy while facilitating access to the data that ai systems require
6) access to fundamental resources, knowledge and digital tools must be guaranteed for all.
additionally, the creation of an oversight agency within ised or an appropriate government body would allow for the canadian government to engage with firms, develop standards to ensure data protections/ethical issues are engaged with, and would allow government involvement in the cutting-edge research space of ai.
to adopt dystopian assumptions concerning autonomous machines threatening human autonomy.
this committee, along with the ieee p7010tm standard working group, well-being metrics standard for ethical artificial intelligence and autonomous systems, was created with the belief that a/is should prioritize human well-being as an outcome in all system designs, using the best available and widely accepted well-being metrics as their reference point.
regarding the breadth of knowledge brought to the research process (one aspect of q3), a conference not surveyed here made an interesting decision: the “fairness, accountability and transparency in ma- chine learning” (fatml) workshop organizers de- cided to host, as of 2018, a conference called fat* and to turn fatml into one sub-event.
however, in a statement aug. 31, the minister said the government was ending the project in a “compassionate way” by allowing payments to continue until march 31, and by helping individuals access welfare, if eligible.
by providing “data privacy” warnings that some smart devices will collect their user’s personal data).
see: the un practitioner’s portal on human rights based programming.
to provide organizations with a set of clear guidelines and certifications guaranteeing they are storing, protecting, and utilizing employee data in an ethical and transparent way.
his responsibilities include representing the center at the partnership on artificial intelligence to benefit people and society, speaking and publishing on ai ethics as well as various other topics in ethics and technology, and coordinating the center’s partnership with the tech museum of innovation in san jose.
despite strong arguments that a right to explanation should exist, it remains less clear whether such a right does exist under european law–and if it does exist, it likely has loopholes an autonomous truck could drive through.
figure 4 displays the average percentage gender gap in labour force participation, defined as the male minus female difference in the participation rate over the male rate, and the average percentage gender unemployment gap, given by the female minus male difference in the unemployment rate over the male rate, for 21 oecd countries.
• created an outreach committee to help identify and incorporate work being done
48 see miles brundage et al., the malicious use of artificial intelligence: forecasting, prevention, and mitigation, future of humanity institute, february 2018.
sometimes referred to as “data science for social good” (dssg), these efforts are not concentrated in the hands of any one sector of society.
they made sure their training data hadn’t been artificially biased by group, for example making sure there was equal training data about people of all races.
waiting lists for therapy can be long.17 ai tools, primarily using emotion recognition and face detection capabilities, can increase access to this education by providing cues to help children identify and ultimately learn facial expressions among their family members and friends.
similarly, will the future give birth to a new legal  eld called “ai law”?
sustainability domains include natural resources, climate, and the environment (for example, climate change, atmosphere, water, oceans, forest, land, soil, biodiversity, species), economics and human behavior (for example, human well- being, poverty, infectious diseases, over- population, resource harvesting), energy (for example, renewable energy, smart grid, material discovery for fuel cell technology) and human-built systems (for example, transportation systems, cities, buildings, data centers, food systems, agriculture).
drawing an appropriate boundary around automated decision systems will be particular to each agency’s context and the interests of the communities they serve.
32 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
laws are generally enforceable by state and federal regulators (including the federal trade commission and state attorney general), though individuals may have private rights
in addition, ai technologies are increasingly penetrating sectors of industry, business and aspects of daily life.
to ask for an explanation when a solely automated decision (e.g., refusal of an online credit application or e-recruiting practices) is being made about them that has legal or other significant effects.
for the rmsea index, values below .08 are considered indicative of good fit (hu & bentler, 1999).
as a result, the inclusion literature is still under develop- ment, with limited agreement on the conceptual underpinnings of this construct.
in may 2018, the cabinet office of japan began discussions toward the formulation of the social principles for human-centric ai, which will be basic principles for better social implementation and sharing of ai.
how do we help people build an inclusive community that reflects our collective values and common humanity from local to global levels, spanning cultures, nations and regions in a world with few examples of global communities?
transparency is often mentioned in discussions of ai accountability, because transparency allows for greater scrutiny of an ai system.
we should thus grasp the opportunity and power we have to shape the fourth industrial revolution and direct it toward a future that reflects our common objectives and values.
the digital world’s emphasis on speed inhibits reflection; its incentive empowers the radical over the thoughtful; its values are shaped by subgroup consensus, not by introspection.
in all, we have collected about 160 such social good use cases to date.
this is a necessary, but probably insufficient step; the kinds of knowledge we outlined above -- understanding where data comes from and how it is collected, understanding organizational cultures and constraints, understanding the multiplicity of uniquely situated perspectives about any given social problem -- are not things that can typically be found in a literature review.
thank you to stephanie ballard, chris bavitz, esha bhandari, hannah bloch-wehba, rachel brooke, ryan calo, craig campbell, corinne cath, danielle citron, kade crockford, cassie deskus, ed felten, rachel goodman, samantha grassle, chuck howell, shankar narayan, nicole ozer, frank pasquale, julia powles, eric sears, andrew selbst, jake snow, vincent southerland, tony thompson, michael veale, rebecca white, and attendees of princeton citp’s ai and ethics conference for their helpful comments on the aia framework.artificial intelligence: europe needs to take a human-in-command approach, says eesc
the “wild west” of personal data may be coming to an end, and ieee p7002’s chairs believe that businesses should be a part of the standards development process because they’ll be the ones wrestling with authorities over how technologies are applied in the market.
1. agencies should conduct a self-assessment of existing and proposed automated decision systems, evaluating potential impacts on fairness, justice, bias, or other concerns across a ected communities;
this article took a good deal of editorial heavy lifting, as well as the participation of over a dozen ieee members from various p7000 working groups.
the u.s. approach to governance of the use of ai reflects our approach to most emerging technologies: (i) recognize the importance of emerging technologies for our future economic growth and security, (ii) assess the adequacy of existing regulations before establishing new ones, (iii) incorporate input from non-federal stakeholders, and (iv) avoid precautionary domestic or international regulatory approaches.
but in this demonstration, google has shown us how far this technology can go -- and how well a machine can spoof a human, bantering back and forth on a phone, undetected.
for example, 90 percent of the 215 million visually impaired persons worldwide who could benefit from environment understanding software on smartphones live in developing countries, where smartphone penetration is low.
ethical challenges will unfold as algorithms are developed that impact how humans and autonomous vehicles interact.
some predictive policing tools, for example, do not necessarily “pro le individuals,” and instead focus on locations, using statistics to try to understand and predict crime trends across geographical areas, with the potential for disparate impact.
privacy & security – ai systems should be secure and respect privacy.
without further ado we’ll dive into the “meat” of the p7000 standards’ working groups and the chairs’ respective statements about the potential business relevance of some of ai’s ethical concerns:
researchers, journalists, legal organizations, and concerned members of the public
however, for critical applications (where “critical” needs to be defined with sufficient clarity), it is beneficial to provide explanations of how the ai application came to a specific result (“explainable ai”).
ieee p7004tm - standard on child and student data governance
 accountability is a primarily social, rather than technical, challenge.
the belfer center for science andn international affairs artificial intelligence and national security
[the writer,] while he is writing on good subjects, is by the very act of writing introduced in a certain measure into the knowledge of the mysteries and greatly illuminated in his innermost soul; for those things which we write we more firmly impress upon the mind…while he is ruminating on the scriptures he is frequently inflamed by them.
1. principle of proper utilization
• create an international, independent agency which can properly disseminate objective statistics and inform media as well as the general public about the impact of robotics and a/is on jobs and growth.
they need privately owned technology that counterbalances the demands on them by technology that is designed for the benefit of others.
our goal is that ethically aligned design will provide insights and recommendations that provide a key reference for the work of technologists in the related fields of science and technology in the coming years.
his research interests include multiple topics in the ethics of technology, such as ai and ethics, the ethics of space exploration and use, the ethics of technological manipulation of humans, the ethics of mitigation of and adaptation towards emerging technological risk, and the impact of technology and engineering on human life and society, including the relationship between technology and religion.
“meaningful human control, artificial intelligence and autonomous weapons systems.” briefing paper for the delegates at the convention on certain conventional weapons meeting of experts on lethal autonomous weapons systems, geneva, april 2016.
saudi funding includes hundreds of millions for magic leap, and huge investments in hot public companies like tesla.
by the a/is community and society at large.
7) individuals should be free to donate their personal data to research organizations in order to contribute to the advancement of knowledge.
well-being, for the purpose of the ieee global initiative, is defined as encompassing human satisfaction with life and the conditions of life as well as an appropriate balance between positive and negative affect.
in the context of existing marketplace frameworks, canadians are supposed to trust black boxes to ensure that charter rights are not being violated, or that the ai and algorithms are not discriminating against people.
social impact domain
it follows, then, that the most important kinds of expertise have to do with making sense of the data itself.
the risk here is that information about individuals, such as  nancial, tax, or health records, could be made accessible through porous ai systems to those without a legitimate need to access them, causing embarrassment and potentially harm.
a special form of multi- stakeholder requirements elicitation has recently even attained the status of a legal obligation: the eu- ropean union’s new data protection law, the gen- eral data protection regulation (gdpr), requires
challenged, its truthful answer would likely be, were it able to communicate: “i don’t know (because i am following mathematical, not human, principles),” or “you would not understand (because i have been trained to act in a certain way but not to explain it).” yet driverless cars are likely to be prevalent on roads within a decade.
perhaps this is the last important lesson of the ethics of ai: many of the problems we face with ai are simply the problems we have faced in the past, brought to the fore by some change in technology.
if we expect ml systems to provide actual explanations for their decisions, we will have as much trouble as if we asked humans to explain the actual basis for their own decisions: they don’t know any more than we do.
much of the public debate around ai in the for-profit world focuses on the potential for labor displacement.
tokens (i.e., people with characteristics that are held by 15% or fewer group members) have been characterized as experiencing difficulties, such as suffering from per- formance pressures and feeling discomfort from being visible within the group (kanter, 1977; pollak & niemann, 1998).
startups such as ryerson’s magnet have great potential to address labour-market challenges.
finally, with microsoft’s ai business solutions, we are building systems of intelligence so organizations can better understand and act on the information they collect in order to be more productive.
these areas, the pertinent issue is the possibility of autonomous systems imitating, influencing, and then determining the norms of human autonomy.
other levers will also have to be mobilized to ensure complementarity in work organizations and to support people’s learning capacities, as highlighted in section 3. ai can also foster new innovation towards the so-called “learning” organizational models.
3. work to build safe and secure infrastructure and environments for development, testing, and deployment of powerful a/is.
7 in 10 canadians agree that canadian government and businesses should assume the responsibility to tackle the risks/ and challenges ai poses to society.
● declining social trust/civic virtue:  the impact of social media ‘echo chambers,’ ‘fake news’, politically motivated ‘trolling,’ digital radicalization, polarization and culture wars on democratic virtues and civic trust has been devastating in the u.s. and the u.k., and has inflamed political conflicts elsewhere.
recently, two major paradigm shifts have further raised expectations for a more concerted effort to improve the way the goa utilizes the data assets we steward:
continued dialogue and collaboration will enable a better understanding of the issues in order to take a more enterprise view to optimize the value proposition for goa investments in data capabilities.
a penetra- tion test, colloquially known as a pen test, is an au- thorized simulated attack on a computer system that looks for security weaknesses, potentially gaining ac- cess to the system’s features and data.
ar’s and vr’s potential for persistent, ubiquitous recording could undermine the reasonable expectation of privacy that undergirds privacy- law doctrine as expressed in constitutional law, tort, and statute (roesner et al., 2014).
for instance, an organization can refer to the “trade-offs” (or “value trade- offs”) involved in the examination of the fairness of an algorithm to a specific end user population.
improved performance of ai systems – driven by research breakthroughs, increased data availability, improved computing power and new architectures – are leading to applications that outperform human beings in certain domains.
as demonstrated by the more than 75% of fortune 1000 companies that have instituted diversity ini- tiatives (daniels, 2001), the management of diversity has become an impor- tant business imperative.
89 (2014): 1; andrew d. selbst and julia powles, “meaningful information and the right to explanation,” international data privacy law 7, no.
the development and use of ais must not contribute  to lessen the responsibility of human beings when decisions must be made.
we feel basic income would also be more effective than minimum wage increases or worker subsidy programs which exist in canada, the us, and the uk.23 unlike those programs, a basic income would compensate for unpaid forms of work such as caregiving, community service, and entrepreneurship.
task forces of tech and business translators from government, corporations, the freelance ranks, and social organizations could be established to help teach ngos about ai with relatable case studies.
we might not reach universal agreement: even the strongest preferences expressed through the moral machine showed substantial cultural variations, and our project builds on a long tradition of investigating cultural variations in ethical judgments28.
the replaceability of human work by intelligent machines is a symptom of this lack of awareness of the economic and political dimensions
the results indicate that so far, the considerations presented in the current paper are not an inte- gral part of current operational research practices in ai/ds for (social) good.
to ensure people are able to interact with society, business and other institutions on an equal footing, we envision a system of contract-based data access that is designed to ensure that individuals control their personal data.
ethical values that have been prominent in the engineering processes should also be explicitly presented as well as empirical evidence of compliance and methodology used, such as data used to train the system, algorithms and components used, and results of behavior monitoring.
most academics are evaluated first and foremost on their records publishing work that furthers the knowledge base of their respective fields, which may be difficult to do if truly putting the needs of non-academic partners at the forefront of the collaboration.
many regulations govern datasets on the basis of the status of the data, such as “public,” “private” or “proprietary.” however, what is done with datasets is ultimately more consequential to subjects/users than the type of data or the context in which it is collected.
questions and uncertainty about how to categorize workers have been an issue for a sometime, with consequences for businesses, workers and government.
human well-being, the existence of many other species, as well as economic and social systems, draw from and depend upon healthy ecological systems and a healthy local and planetary environment.
it appears that automated grading isn't ready to replace human markers.
it is important that their decisions are not addressed against us and fit within our idea of justice.
a positive gender unemployment gap in the model arises if the arrival rate and the size of these shocks is higher for women than for men.
as a collaboration hub, scale ai will facilitate cooperation and help design and execute high value-add collaborative projects between partners.
such analysis fleshes out the following suggestive comments of desmond tutu, renowned former chair of south africa’s truth and reconciliation commission, when he says of africans, “(we say) a person is a person through other people...
launched by accenture’s technology vision team, the data ethics research initiative brings together leading thinkers and researchers from accenture labs and over a dozen external organizations to explore the most pertinent issues of data ethics in the digital economy.
piketty’s book was published before there was a general awareness of recent developments in ai and their potential disruptive power.
for instance, when a search result for a movie provides information about the cast and other movies those actors were in, or at work when you participate in a meeting and the last several documents that you shared with the person you’re meeting with are automatically delivered to you.
by linking such information to individual attitudes and behavior as well as various diversity metrics (e.g., job yields or attrition by demographic group, promotion rates, etc.
we recommend designers not only take stands to ensure meaningful human control, but be proactive about providing quality situational awareness to operators and commanders using those systems.
council for big data, ethics, and society.
it is common for a consumer to consent to the sharing of discrete, apparently meaningless data points like credit card transaction data, answers to test questions, or how many steps they walk.
with the concept strengthening in the 1950s and ’60s, when the use of computers to assess technology grew more popular, she wrote widely on a need to balance it with other considerations like effects on the work force.
the second is an anal- ysis of ais ship loca on data to study rescue opera ons at sea, and a brief descrip on of the wider data ecosystem
can identify issues that have clear societal or economic consequences and prioritize the development of solutions that protect people without unnecessarily restricting future innovation.
the stagnation of median wages in many western countries is cited as evidence that automation is already having an effect—though it is hard to disentangle the impact of offshoring, which has also moved many routine jobs (including manufacturing and call-centre work) to low-wage countries in the developing world.
the author of the book “technocreep” said o’neill makes a good point that the 10 year challenge could have been orchestrated by someone looking to collect data because the source of the meme remains unknown.
real-life examples show ai already being applied to some degree in about one-third of these use cases, ranging from helping blind people navigate their surroundings to aiding disaster relief efforts.
to begin with, many popular books and articles on the topic encourage readers to argue about the danger of algorithms, which is not even the right word to be debating.
for artificial intelligence, the association for computing machinery, future advocacy, acm special interest group on artificial intelligence, the world economic forum’s global future council of artificial intelligence and robotics, the digital asia hub, the ai initiative, the open roboethics institute, the dalai lama center for ethics and transformative values at mit, the ethics initiative at mit media lab, the ieee- usa government relations council artificial intelligence committee, the ieee robotics
• ieee p7006tm, standard for personal data artificial intelligence (ai) agent.
while these stud- ies provide a meaningful starting point for understanding the role of work group practices for promoting perceptions of inclusion, clearly much more work is needed, especially that which is theoretically grounded.
24% of canadians don’t think they will be using them in the foreseeable future for personal use
“people in certain occupations may legitimately fear losing their jobs to robots and software that can work for cheaper and for longer hours than any human.”
as such, design decisions regarding human control must be made so
and while it is easy to see fields in which automation might do away with the need for human labour, it is less obvious where technology might create new jobs.
interpersonal models of justice, such as social exchange theory (blau, 1964), provide a basis for making predictions about the effects of inclusion.
mixed reality could alter our concepts of identity and reality as these technologies become more common in our work, education, social lives, and commercial transactions.
with respect to safety, university of connecticut philosopher susan leigh anderson argues that machines should be permitted “to function autonomously only in areas where there is agreement among ethicists about what constitutes acceptable behavior.” more broadly, she cautions those developing ethical operating protocols for ai technologies that “ethics is a long-studied field within philosophy,” one that “goes far beyond laypersons’ intuitions.”
and caregiver coalitions have improved standards for task workers — sometimes through legislation.
the policy mandates respect for human dignity through three core principles of “respect for persons, concern for welfare, and justice,” she noted.
our dedicated team of technologists and researchers work with leaders across the company to invest in, incubate and deliver breakthrough ideas and solutions that help our clients create new sources of business advantage.
people will need to be more globally aware as jobs will increasingly involve serving not just a community, but the world.
and if we want to be able to have real discussions about this as a society, we need to fix that.
in sum, the issues and recommendations of the present paper are characteristic of, but not limited to, artificial intelligence and data science.
the important question is not whether algorithms will do good, but rather who they will serve and who will get to take part in shaping them.
individuals require mechanisms to help curate their unique identity and personal data
• the convention on the rights of the child.
brains are quite difficult to understand, and modifying a brain to be trustworthy when given large amounts of resources and unchecked power would be extremely difficult or impossible.
deepmind ethics and society
in other words, the more culturally similar a country is to the united states, the more similarly its people play the moral machine.
should a human always make the final decision?
it also requires that everyone must be able to obtain an effective remedy and redress where their rights have been denied or violated.the risks machine learning systems pose must be urgently examined and addressed at governmental level and by the private sector conceiving, developing and, deploying these systems.
a great deal of research has focused on work group diversity, but management scholars have only recently focused on inclusion.
“the convergence of virtual reality and social networks: threats to privacy and autonomy.” science engineering ethics 22, no.
the goa has considerable capabilities in people, data infrastructure and the information itself, though capacity is not spread evenly throughout government.
“for a meaningful artificial intelligence: tow ards a french and european strategy.” ai for humanity.
we have been prepared to adjust judicial processes in an effort to make them more efficient, and where technology has been used to improve processes and facilitate dispute resolution, as has been the case with british columbia’s online civil resolution tribunal, the results appear to have been salutary.
mr/a/is technology could be especially meaningful in allowing people to create a physical appearance that more closely reflects who they are.
an- nual review of law and social science, 9 (1) (2013), 207
the united nations sustainable development goals (sdgs) are among the best-known and most frequently cited societal challenges, and our use cases map to all 17 of the goals, supporting some aspect of each one (exhibit 4).
or local legislation may contradict an individual’s values or access and control of their personal data.
use of ai models in cases such as identifying tax fraud could be subject to the similar expectations and/or requirements and therefore need a high level of explainability—or run the risk of being considered unusable.
the rights to equality and non-discrimination are only two of the human rights that may be adversely affected through the use of machine learning systems: privacy, data protection, freedom of expression, participation in cultural life, equality before the law, and meaningful access to remedy are just some of the other rights that may be harmed with the misuse of this technology.
just as tv became the primary medium for civic communication in the 1960s, social media is becoming this in the 21st century.
explaining in human terms the results from large and complex ai models remains one of the key challenges to achieving user and regulatory acceptance.52 opening the ai “black box” to show how decisions are made, which factors are decisive and which are not, will be important for social use of ai.
“society’s role and the ethics of modeling,” in ethics in modeling, edited by w. a. wallace, 242– 245. tarrytown, ny: elsevier, 1994.
• processes for documenting and auditing operations of ai systems to aid in understanding ongoing performance monitoring.
in legal environments, paralegals and law clerks now use “e-discovery” software to  nd documents.
specifically, one five-factor model (a) maintained a separation of items indicating employee involve- ment and learning and growth outcomes for diversity and for inclusion (simi- lar to study 2), whereas the other three factors combined items indicating fair treatment, representation, and top management support for diversity and inclusion.
although ethical challenges often have technical solutions, identifying and ameliorating those challenges requires technicians to methodically inquire about the social context
66 conference on fairness, accountability, and transparency, https://fatconference.org.
source data and code that can be used to reproduce figs.
at the same time, many presentations of ai tend to overrate knowledge in the sense that they suggest that the existence of knowledge can by itself solve problems.
social concerns raised by the public, legal, and professional communities.
governments across the globe are making strides in improving the transparency and accountability of their actions by making their data available and open to the general public.
bias that leads to unfair outcomes is a risk, including when algorithms are trained on biased historical data
before we go into ethics, here’s another way to divide up what ai is good and bad at.
or subjective metrics are also employed in the field of positive psychology and in the world happiness report, and the data are employed by researchers to understand the causes, consequences, and correlates of well-being as subjects see it.
“of, for, and by the people: the legal lacuna of synthetic persons.” artificial intelligence
internal peer-review practices can mitigate risk, and an external review board can contribute signi cantly to public trust.
we found that these vary significantly across social impact domains, based on our library.
ensure that the interest of humanity — and not the interests of the autonomous systems themselves — remains the guiding principle.
develop, approve and implement the governance model as first priority.
throughout the development process p7003 challenges the developer to think explicitly about the criteria that are being used for the recommendation process and the rationale, i.e.
future work, including our own, should explore how experimentation with sectoral roles and relationships in dssg may signify profound changes in the way society is organized and governed.humanaware.org response to the montreal declaration – responsible ai
a nested model is considered more suitable if its chi-square value is not statistically significantly worse compared with the less parsimonious model in which it is nested (loehlin, 1992).
while algorithms and ai can improve on human decision making to reduce bias in some cases, the models can also end up re ecting intrinsic bias contained in the data
as vast amounts of data are generated through the use of smart devices, applications and cloud-based services, there are growing concerns about the concentration of information by a relatively small number of companies.
the framing of a problem (and its associ- ated “solutions”) has a powerful effect on how peo- ple – and thus the public as those who may bene- fit, or be harmed by an ai system – perceive the world and act in it, e.g., [42].
a very good example is bird et al.’s [31] use of data science methods informed by definition #6 of “the drug problem”.
the full report created by piaf, the privacy impact assessment framework can be found here.
also, ai researchers and practitioners increasingly work in in- terdisciplinary teams, and sometimes also draw on skilled decision analysts who are much more alert to the complexities of decision making.
after failing to exploit her vanity, he changes strategies and exploits her desire for knowledge, basing his argument on an analogy up the great chain of being:
the insights derived from data already permeate much of our lives, and promise to shape even more of the opportunities, limits, and major and minor life decisions we encounter moving forward.
discrimination is far from being an enlightened behavior and should never ever be replicated by any ai-enabled machines interacting with another human.
privacy and security of personal information, that govern
finally, a/is frameworks used to generate artworks are becoming more accessible, which raises questions of the role of the human artist and ethical issues of authorship and creative rights.
those whose jobs are most at risk are those with routine responsibilities, such as truck drivers or warehouse workers, as “robots and software…can work for cheaper and longer hours than any human,” mcclure says, adding that “regardless of whether technology might lead to certain people’s jobs becoming obsolete, the fear itself is real.”
translated roughly as “flourishing,” the benefits of eudaimonia begin by conscious contemplation, where ethical considerations help us define how we wish to live.
german ethical rule number 7 unambiguously states that in dilemma situations, the protection of human life should enjoy top priority over the protection of other animal life.
in addition, in employment and management technology or work contexts, “ethics” typically refers to a code of conduct regarding professional decorum (versus a values-driven design process mentality).
our definition of inclusion depicts diverse individuals’ experience as having the potential to be positive when they feel a sense of belonging and feel valued for the characteristics on which they are unique.
in a free society, it's important that people have the power to share their opinion, even if others think they're wrong.
the following analysis in no way intends to downplay these approaches’ positive contributions, and caveats with regards to the study’s results (which may de- rive from the conferences’ goal being “social good” rather than “the common good”) will be described in the discussion in section 5.3.
how do we help people build an informed community that exposes us to new ideas and builds common understanding in a world where every person has a voice?
3b, though, suggest that manufacturers and policymakers should be, if not responsive, at least cognizant of moral preferences in the countries in which they design artificial intelligence systems and policies.
increasingly this data is personal data, or personally identifiable information, known as pii.
one goal should be to ensure that governments work with businesses and other stakeholders to strike the balance that is needed to maximize the potential of ai to improve people’s lives and address new challenges as they arise.
we found that these vary signi cantly across social impact domains, based on our library.
social identity complexity highlights how people sub- jectively combine multiple social identities, reconciling how individuals may be out-group members on the basis of one social identity (e.g., gender) while they simultaneously are in- group members on another social identity characteristic (e.g., race; roccas & brewer, 2002).
24 see for example, steven kelley, “seeing ai: artificial intelligence for blind and visually impaired use,” visionaware, american foundation for the blind, visionaware.org/info/everyday-living/helpful-products/using-apps/seeing-ai-app/1235.
however, it is by no means guaranteed that the impact of these systems will be a positive one without a concerted effort by
whether it’s analyzing massive amounts of patient data to uncover hidden patterns that can point the way toward better treatments, identifying compounds that show promise as new drugs or vaccines,
the public sector, society, business, administration and science are all called upon to embrace the opportunities it provides.
machine learning increasingly shapes human culture: the votes we cast, the shows we watch, the words we type on facebook all become food for models of human behavior, which in turn shape what we see online.
for example, in a use case on predicting students at risk of dropping out of school, the base is the number of k-12 students worldwide; the model in this case has to be run separately for each individual student approximately once per month to predict the likelihood that they will drop out.
44 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
“automated experiments on ad privacy settings: a tale of opacity, choice, and discrimination.” arxiv:1408.6491 [cs] , 2014.
an example is the use of face detection on surveillance footage to detect the presence of escaped criminals in a speci c area.16 in education, emotion recognition on video or image data can be helpful in determining which speci c students need extra attention and help.
however, they can also create and propagate unrealistic expectations as to what constitutes success for an individual or a group, as well as offer opportunities for extreme ideas and ideologies to spread.
by contrast, the male labour force participation rate steadily declined in the post-war period.
relevant examples of these two are: (a) symbolic agents that have explicit representations of plans, actions, goals, etc.
it is possible to build real knowledge by comparing perspectives from different social contexts.
of all humanity rather than one state or organization.” (future of life institute 2017)
by drawing from over two thousand years’ worth of classical ethics traditions, the ieee global initiative explores established ethics systems, addressing both scientific and religious approaches, including secular philosophical traditions, to address human morality in the digital age.
however, there is a “lack of consensus among the broader community regarding what a ‘solutions toolkit’ would look like.”2 this paper surveys the topic of accountability in ai and its link to trust, proposes some key definitions and distinctions, and provides
from an ethical point of view, the development of ai poses previously unknown challenges.
in fact, the small business community is cutting costs and delivering awesome customer experiences with ai-powered applications — and they’re competing with the big boys at scale.
“privacy by design: the 7 foundational principles.
those responding to the survey may have had a direct interest in, or experience with, diversity issues or may represent organizations with for- malized diversity initiatives.
google's engineers used artificial intelligence to give birth to something called duplex -- a digital assistant that can call a local business to make appointments on your behalf over the phone.
in july 2018, the german government has founded a data ethics commission which will publish recommendations regarding the use of ai and digital innovations under ethical aspects.
and we should work together to encourage approaches across the globe that will lead to greater prosperity for all.
how do we help people build supportive communities that strengthen traditional institutions in a world where membership in these institutions is declining?
making the wrong strategic decision based on ai recommendations was the top risk identified by early adopters when asked about the organizational risks of using ai, followed closely by cybersecurity vulnerabilities and unclear legal responsibility for decisions made by ai systems (see figure 5).
it is possible many of our challenges are at least as much social as they are economic -- related to a lack of community and connection to something greater than ourselves.
for example, transfer learning, in which an ai model is trained to accomplish a certain task and then applies that learning to a similar but distinct activity, will reduce the requirement for massive training data volume for each individual activity.
first, two doctoral research assistants (white male and asian female), who had no prior knowledge of the study’s dimensions of interest, independently analyzed the responses to identify key words or themes and developed separate lists of attributes for diversity and inclusion.
for example, tyson’s university of california, berkeley, colleague j. bradford delongbelieves that, “it is profoundly unhelpful to stoke fears about robots, and to frame the issue as ‘artificial intelligence taking american jobs.’” taking a long historical view, delong argues that there have been “relatively few cases in which technological progress, occurring within the context of a market economy, has directly impoverished unskilled workers.” still, like tyson, he notes that “workers must be educated and trained to use increasingly high-tech tools,” and that redistributive policies will be needed to “maintain a proper distribution of income.”
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 33
• vivarelli, m. “innovation and employment: a survey,” institute for the study of labor (iza) discussion paper no.
it is already changing our health and leading to a “quantified” self, and sooner than we think it may lead to human augmentation.
a fundamental aspect of government accountability and due process is notice of how
2. work with the mr/a/is development community to address this challenge and try to make it a standard part of the conversation from the very beginning of mr/a/is-related project development.
in the paper, we also show that countries that have experienced more convergence in labour force participation rates also experience stronger convergence in unemployment rates as predicted by our framework, suggesting that international evidence broadly supports our hypothesis.
the enlightenment sought to submit traditional verities to a liberated, analytic human reason.
it will be essential to train people to understand the meaning and implications of ai results to supplement their decision-making with sound human judgment.
all ai enabled entities should have a purpose.
support and encourage the efforts of groups raising awareness for social and ethics committees whose roles are to support ethics dialogue within their organizations, seeking approaches that are both aspirational and values- based.
while these indicators vary in their scope and use, they expand the focus of impact to aspects of human well-being that are not currently measured in the realms of a/is.
this work is particularly meaningful in our asset management business where, as stewards of our clients’ assets, we work tirelessly to allocate capital to management teams who employ proper corporate governance and ultimately drive the best long-term value for our investors.”
models shaped by examples of human behavior are necessarily models of a particular cultural context.
until labor and employment laws and systems for providing bene ts are modernized to respond to current workforce trends, there’s a danger that growth in productivity and opportunity will be constrained.
to the lawyer in court, to the online shopper, to the social media user.
“considerations about the relationship between animal and machine ethics.” ai & society 31, no.
furthermore, according to the concept of mutual inter- group differentiation (hewstone & brown, 1986), groups can retain their valued identities but still engage in social cooperation with other groups.
if participation rises due to an increase in labour force attachment, workers become less likely to enter unemployment and consequently the unemployment rate may decline.
in addition, gender similarity has been found to be positively related to trust, lmx, group cohesion, feelings of competence, psychological attachment, and intent to stay (mellor, 1995; pelled & xin, 2000; shapcott, carron, burke, bradshaw, & estabrooks, 2006; tsui et al., 1992).
that means we need community standards that reflect our collective values for what should and should not be allowed.
if we ignore that warning, we are in danger of lapsing into technological solutionism (morozov, 2013), where we propose data-informed solutions that have little chance of actually making a difference because they are contextually misconstrued, organizationally untenable, or socially unacceptable.
text and data mining have enormous potential for scientific discovery and the development of new expertise.
while the direct coding of human rights in a/is may be difficult or impossible based on contextual use, newer guidelines from the united nations, such as the ruggie principles, provide methods to pragmatically implement human rights ideals within business or corporate contexts that could be adapted for engineers and technologists.
they should maintain situational awareness of those contexts where weapons systems are deployed, and prevent those systems from being used outside the scope of operations for which their behavior is predictable.
recommendations for good scientific practice and the consumers of vr- technology.” frontiers in robotics and ai 3 (february 19, 2016).
4) the discovery of ais operating errors, unexpected or undesirable effects, security breaches, and data leaks must imperativelybe reported to the relevant public authorities, stakeholders, and those affected by the situation.
these fundamental principles have influenced the reform of the data protection legislation dating back to 1995.
even where jobs are not entirely replaced, ai will have an impact.
what is more, very few people have suggested that more cooperatives in the economy could temper the negative effects of the development of ai on work and the economy.
debates about fundamental issues such as the impact on our inner lives of the loss of control over our data will only intensify in the years ahead.
while contractual agreements and audits have long been part and parcel for legal and compliance teams, ai and automation introduce a new class of threats around which businesses are well advised to exercise much greater transparency.
it is therefore important that citizens understand these roles and their related data to assess
there’s a third category, where ai can’t help at all: problems where the goal itself isn’t well understood.
beyond coaching, these task forces could potentially help ngos scope potential projects, support deployment, and plan sustainable road maps.
my hope is that more of us will commit our energy to building the long term social infrastructure to bring humanity together.
in our view, the public and private sectors should take six steps to outsmart ai and avoid its dislocations:
millennials are changing much about the way we see the world and handle information, driving a social and collaborative economy, and rewarding innovative companies like uber and zip car.
with growing interest and investment in data science for social good (dssg) efforts comes a growing need to understand what’s at stake in collaborating across sectors.
in addition to ethics-related work to ensure that all possible gaps are addressed, the european commission is currently assessing whether the eu safety and liability frameworks are adequate in face of the new challenges posed by ai.
capability building, including that funded through philanthropy, can help: talent shortages at this level can be overcome with a focus on accessible education opportunities such as online courses and freely available guides, as well as contributions of time by organizations such as technology companies that employ highly skilled ai talent.
1. embody the highest ideals of human beneficence as a superset of human rights.
however, since people have some level of sub-clinical fear of public speaking that they eventually get over with practice, this has been one of the first areas where widespread consumer access to public speaking vr exposure therapy software has occurred .
as the need for transparency and explanation will become more important thanks to better access to ai- enabled knowledge, the doctor will have to give more and more reasons for having or not following the recommendations provided by ai.
notice and disclaimer of liability concerning the use of ieee-sa industry connections documents
3) the decision to kill must always be made by human beings, and responsibility for this decision must not be transferred to an ais.
a working committee should be convened gathering those at the sharp end of genomics, a/is, ethics, and governance to start a conversation with different communities to better understand the impact on well-being of the use of a/is to interpret (and engineer) genomics data.
this is because they encourage reasonable conduct and hold parties accountable if they fall short of that standard.
for some of these problems, the facebook community is in a unique position to help prevent harm, assist during a crisis, or come together to rebuild afterwards.
[71] j. auerbach, h. barton, t. blunt, v. cha- ganti, b. ghai, a. meng, c. blackburn, e. zegura, p. flores, coupling data science with participatory planning for equity in urban re- newal programs: an analysis of atlanta’s anti- displacement tax fund.
components (code, sensors, data assets, etc.
outcome: “one government” – a unified approach to investing in data analytics.
the strategy aims to strengthen germanys leading position in research and focuses on the transfer of research findings to the private sector.
but more and more, public entities are looking outside of government for guidance on how to make use of sensitive data in a way that both protects citizens and shields the government from liability.
a google spokesperson told wired that the company’s research page lists only people who have authored research papers, not everyone who implements or researches ai technology, but declined to provide more information.
of this committee, well-being is defined as encompassing human satisfaction with life and the conditions of life, flourishing (eudaimonia), and positive and negative affect, following
questions about the ethics of artificial intelligence are questions about the ethics of the people who make it and the purposes they put it to.
today, we believe policy discussions should focus on continued innovation and advancement of fundamental ai technologies, support the development and deployment of ai capabilities across different sectors, encourage outcomes that are aligned with a shared vision of human-centered ai, and foster the development and sharing of best practices
a first questions is: who defines the common good (or the interests and facilities) and how?
some human responsibility for subsequent “decisions” made by such a/is (for example under a theory of “intervening causation” — akin to the “relief” from responsibility of a hammer manufacturer when a burglar uses a hammer to break the window of a house), thus potentially reducing the incentives for designers, developers, and users of a/is to ensure their safety.
10. aspire to design practices that incorporate transparency, con gurability, accountability, and auditability.
using another drugs example: if the problem is a person’s breathing being suspended due to an overdose, this problem can be dealt with and overcome by the proper administration of naloxone.
we should look for evidence such as correlations between the increased use of a/is and any suspected impacts.
while available economic data is far from perfect, there are clear indications that how enterprises organize work, how people  nd work, and the
39% of early adopters believe data issues is one of the top three challenges
social services minister lisa macleod pulled the plug on ontarios basic income pilot project in july, despite assurances during the election campaign it would continue.
influential voices in the ai conversation have strongly cautioned against ai being used in legal proceedings.
also, it makes total sense that we learn much, much more from failures than we do from successes, in science, where it’s important to falsify, as in any endeavor where we have motivation to change something and grow.
on the whole, however, governments will increasingly face pressure to change their current approach to public engagement and policymaking, as their central role of conducting policy diminishes owing to new sources of competition and the redistribution and decentralization of power that new technologies make possible.
even so, we need to protect the average person from the erosion of their personal power over their own lives and their influence in society.
treating ai as an unprecedented novelty impedes the government’s ability to create clear guidance about ai development and implementation.
each ai application must be tailored to the specifics of the problem to be solved and according to the data that represent it.
 develop training and skill development in collaboration with post-secondary and human resources sector to develop,
it may be impossible to temper those mistakes, as researchers in ai often suggest, by including in a program caveats requiring “ethical” or “reasonable” outcomes.
yet, we believe that similar protection should extend to non-neural and personal data used by algorithms, which can be equally sensitive and identifying.
the public and private sectors should seek to meet the needs of people at all stages of the workforce continuum — from students entering the workforce to unemployed and underemployed workers, to people currently in the workforce who need help gaining new skills to ensure their long-term employability.
explainable ai could provide transparency regarding the input data as well as the “rationale” of the algorithm leading to a specific output.
there are successful models of user experience (ux design) that account for human factors which should be incorporated
the outcomes must be tested rigorously and explainable where necessary, given that an ai model is analyzing personal data to sort people, assess the credit risk of customers, and potentially reject some.
what kind of economy and society will we have, if the share of low income jobs doubles again from 30% to 60%, with the share of national income of the bottom half of earners continuing to decline to subsistence levels, while the share of income of the top 1% continues to accelerate?17 we can already see the impact of declining opportunity for the bottom 60% of society, causing a slowing of economic growth.18
personal data must be treated as private property, owned by the individual, controlled by the individual, protected by all.
• create a rigorous methodology to best incorporate feedback received from eadv1 and eadv2, working to holistically consider global and diversity-based considerations for content inclusion.
the development of privacy rules over the past two decades provides a good preview of what we might expect to see more broadly in the coming years for issues relating to ai.
c. internal agency self-assessments: increase the capacity of public agencies to assess fairness, justice, due process, and disparate impact
however, the speed of “good enough” automated systems can enable meaningful scale efficiencies—for example, providing automated answers to questions asked by citizens through email.
the single most important skill that people will need for tomorrow’s jobs is the ability to continually learn.
“on top of that, we must include the harm of long-term opportunities and plans scuppered — several participants had registered to obtain a three-year degree and no longer have that option, while already having incurred costs in most cases,” said de wispelaere, a political economy research fellow with the u.k.-based independent social research foundation.
in regards to the algorithms powering ai, or the affective sensors becoming standard features in autonomous vehicles, or companion robots, etc., how a/is affects our digital personas through use or misuse of our data is critical to understand, monitor, and control.
“the ‘ethics of code’ are designed to protect the user and to ensure that tech giants, such as sage, are building ai that is safe, secure, fits the use case and most importantly is inclusive and reflects the diversity of the users it serves.
a bias b privacy violation c unsafe use
as companies embrace digital channels for reaching customers, however, this effort can also exacerbate another facet of the adaptation gap — the space between employees and the companies for which they work.
while tradition- ally, such statements targeted illegal drugs, the recent us opioid crisis, which was declared a nationwide public health emergency14, has highlighted how a similar problem can originate from a substance that may be legally prescribed or illegally peddled.
the finding for differentiation is consistent with the view that “lmx vari- ability runs counter to principles of equality and consistency, which are important for maintain- ing social harmony in groups” (hooper & martin, 2008: 20).
we can use it for good.
transparency as a fundamental design requirement for intelligent systems.” ijcai-2016 ethics for artificial intelligence workshop.
but what does the gdpr, the sweeping overhaul of the 1995 european data protection directive that affects any company that does business with europeans, say about machine learning and artificial intelligence?
 continued focus on the long term investment plan for addressing the people, process and technology pillars of the enterprise data analytics strategy.
where there is a material risk of harm, we will proceed only where we believe that the benelts substantially outweigh the risks, and will incorporate appropriate safety constraints.
should we be worried that humans prefer the company of ai to that of other humans or animals?
using the framework of international human rights law
there is a fundamental need for people to have the right to define access and provide informed consent with respect to the use of their personal data (as they do in the physical world).
these companies already have thousands of researchers on staff and billions of dollars set aside to invest in capturing the next generation of leading data scientists — giving them a huge head start over the rest of the market.
the bottom line, however, is the same: business leaders and senior executives need to understand their changing environment, challenge the assumptions of their operating teams, and relentlessly and continuously innovate.
15) shared prosperity: the economic prosperity created by ai should be shared broadly, to benefit all of humanity.
organizations such as the ieee, the association for computing machinery (acm), the association for the advancement of artificial intelligence (aaai), the uk royal academy of engineering, the engineering council, engineers canada, and the japanese society for artificial intelligence (jsai) have developed codes of ethics.
a/ is should therefore remain to be subject to the applicable regimes of property law.
even though the diversity research literature is vast, much research is still needed to under- stand how organizations can create inclusive environments that provide opportunities for the variety of people who work together in our global economy.
software company adobe systems inc. is attempting to address this disparity by uniting customer and employee experience under a single leader.
a way that both respects and fulfills human rights, freedoms, human dignity, and cultural diversity.
4. ensure that the public has a meaningful opportunity to respond to and, if necessary, dispute the use of a given system or an agency’s approach to algorithmic accountability.
the group was created to design a european ai strategy and propose ethical guidelines relating to fairness, safety, transparency, the future of work and democracy by early 2019.
we would especially like to thank eileen m. lach, the ieee general counsel and chief compliance officer, who invested her time and expertise in fully reviewing this entire document, with the heartfelt conviction that there is a pressing need to focus the global community on highlighting ethical considerations in the development of autonomous and intelligent systems.
those include rules for performing algorithmic impact assessments30; transparency and explainability; quality assurance; ensuring human intervention; recourse and reporting.
user interface design to control the rate
i jump with joy at the opportunity to transform the paralyzing energy of anxiety into the empowering energy of growth, and believe its critical that more women adopt this mindset so they don’t hold themselves back from positions they don’t believe they are qualified for.
an eu ai infrastructure, possibly with a european ai certification or label, could help promote the development of responsible, sustainable ai, but could also give the eu a competitive advantage.
another distinction is that between communal and distributive conceptions of the common good.
in previous waves of automation, workers had the option of moving from routine jobs in one industry to routine jobs in another; but now the same “big data” techniques that allow companies to improve their marketing and customer-service operations also give them the raw material to train machine-learning systems to perform the jobs of more and more people.
also take into consideration, and happen in conjunction with, independent assessments on respect and international obligations to promote, protect, and fulfill a full spectrum of human rights.
in the research sector, understanding the role of the non-coding portions of dna (only 2% of the human genome encode proteins) is yet another case where data analytics may have a large impact.
• arkin, r. c. “ethics and autonomous systems: perils and promises [point of view].” proceedings of the ieee 104, no.
however, as the ai field continues to advance, and more models are pretrained with large amounts of data in various domains, the incremental amount of data required to solve individual problems can often be reduced.
in general our analysis suggests that domains in which data are sensitive and predictions identify individuals—for example economic empowerment, education, equality, health, and security—face the highest magnitude of risk (exhibit 13).
po- litical philosophy distinguishes between substantive and proceduralist conceptions of the common good.
• engagement in on-demand work through digital platforms allows jobs to come to workers, rather than forcing people to migrate to available work.
to develop and adopt clear principles to guide the people building, using and applying ai systems.
it also prohibits the use of child labor and requires the on-demand platforms that it uses to be accessible.
... 23) common good: superintelligence should only be developed in the service of widely shared ethical ideals,
with the creation of superclusters, ai talents and relevant stakeholders would be able to bundle forces for fast innovation and avoid dispersed efforts.
this means technologies created with the best intentions, but without considering well-being metrics, can still have dramatic negative consequences on people’s mental health, emotions, sense
computational sustainability is an area of study within the a/is community that demonstrates that the a/is community is already showing interest in well-being even when not using
if the ai’s job were to tell tuna from salmon, the very first question may be “is the left half of the picture darker than the right half?,” and by the end of it it would look like “given the answers to the past 374 questions, is the average color of pixels in this square more orange or red?” the “knobs” here are the order in which questions are asked, and what the boundaries between a yes and a no for each of them are.
nearly 2.5 billion people over the next quarter century, ai offers signi cant opportunities to increase food production by improving agricultural yield and reducing waste.
data collection and control issues within mixed realities combined with a/is present multiple ethical and legal challenges that ought to be addressed before these realities pervade society.
for example, an individual subway user’s travel card, tracking their individual movements, should be protected from uses that identify or profile that individual to make inferences about his/her likes or location generally, but could be included in the overall travel systems management to
“liability and regulation of autonomous vehicle technologies.” state of california department of transportation technical report.
while the correlation was accurate, the system failed to detect that the primary reason for this lower mortality rate was that asthma patients receive faster and more comprehensive care than other patients because they are at greater risk.
how can ai guarantee respect for personal privacy ?
ai technologies are often heralded as being well suited to tediously repetitive tasks, obeying rules that a machine can “learn”.
this declaration underlines that inclusion, diversity, and equity are key components to ensuring that machine learning systems do not create or perpetuate discrimination, particularly against marginalised groups.
the legal mechanism would empower each trust to prioritise the data subjects’ interests in negotiations.
in europe to fully exploit the potential of ai in the economy and society earlier this year a new eu strategy on ai was published in the communication on artificial intelligence for europe.
“robotic nudges: the ethics of engineering a more socially just human being.” science and engineering ethics 22, no.
developing a code of ethics should be a collaborative e ort that involves all of the stakeholders in
23) common good: superintelligence should only be developed in the service of widely shared ethical ideals, and for the benefit of all humanity rather than one state or organization.
this article arose from a keynote given at the march 2017 ai in asia – ai for social good workshop in tokyo, japan, and the great discussions we had there.
in order to measure the success of the transformation of people, process and technology capabilities a maturity model approach is proposed and illustrated below.
the common rule and irbs dominate conversations about practical ethics, but in some cases,
the chairs of the ieee’s standards working groups seem to be of the belief that more transparency will be demanded of our common technologies.it seems to be argued by ieee p7001 that “baking in” transparency (in a clear, structured way) could help companies adjust to what may be inevitable demands for that transparency.
source: statistics canada, labour force survey, cansim table 282–0002.disentangling the meanings of
the use of ai in the judicial process should be viewed as a point farther down the road on that same journey.
of seattle adopted ordinance 123576, which requires the public disclosure of city surveillance systems.38 even though city agencies have yet to start “back lling”
initiatives that are related to the ef ciency and effective management of public- and social-sector entities, including strong institutions, transparency, and  nancial management.
when ai systems are used to help make decisions that impact people’s lives, it is particularly important that people understand how those decisions were made.
it is underpinned by a concept of trusted ai that takes into account the need for trust in the technology itself, trust in outcomes, trust in developers and manufacturers, and trust in the rules and norms governing ai.
fast.ai’s courses are designed to offer an alternative to the conventional grad school track into ai, and the company offers diversity scholarships.
more likely is the danger that ai will misinterpret human instructions due to its inherent lack of context.
percent of men and women who contributed work to three leading machine learning conferences in 2017. source: element ai
understand it not just in the macroeconomic, abstract, or short-term; know what it means to the individual who is excited, anxious, and fearful.
), privacy, big data and the public good: frameworks for engagement (pp.
ba- sically, everybody (including drug users) knows that drugs are bad for health, family life, socio-economic status, etc.
while society as an aggregate is better off, individual workers are being displaced.
all of humanity, it may be bad for a minority
data professionals should strive to use data in ways that are consistent with the intentions and understanding of the disclosing party.
social justice, well-being and economic organization.
from the report: “... the time is ripe for our measurement system to shift emphasis from measuring economic production to measuring people’s well-being ... emphasizing well-being is important because there appears to be an increasing gap between the information contained
if society approaches these technologies primarily with fear and suspicion, societal resistance may result, impeding important work on ensuring
p7006 -standard on personal data ai agent working groupp7006 -standard on personal data ai agent working groupstandard summary:
obtaining access to these types of data sets by social entrepreneurs and ngos can be dif cult because of regulations on data use, privacy and other concerns around risks, and bureaucratic inertia.
the embankment project for inclusive capitalism (epic) project helps articulate the types of factors that aren’t always captured in financial statements but are important to the long-term investment performance.”
canadians say government and business have a responsibility to tackle the risks and challenges that ai poses to society, but just 1 in 10 think they’re prepared.
big data can produce compelling insights about populations, but those same insights can be used to unfairly limit an individual’s possibilities.
a method should allow for differing cultural norms as well as legal and regulatory frameworks.
it is not subject to the government of canada web standards and has not been altered or updated since it was archived.
their gaming, theater, cinema and architecture antecedents; however, these media also present new occasions for developers to fashion novel modes of editing, point of view (pov), and sound (for example).
to meet the challenges of the evolving economy, we must also understand how the on-demand economy, part-time work, independent contracting, and temporary jobs affect individuals and society.54 these changes raise questions that are not always adequately addressed by existing legal and policy frameworks.
canada is in a unique position to develop the world’s next-generation supply chain standard.
use force against, neutralize, damage or destroy) targets without human intervention.”
launch innovative new training models: the government could launch and fund a “venture capital lab” to create innovative training programs, so new training ideas can be tested, validated and scaled up (as recommended by the advisory council on economic growth).
what ai is good at and bad at
social services minister lisa macleod pulled the plug on ontario’s basic income pilot project in july, despite assurances during the election campaign it would continue.
with this level of investment, if your business doesn’t already have a strategy to incorporate ai or machine learning (ml) into your development efforts by 2019, then you risk irrelevancy.
and at a more fundamental level, argues andrew wachtel, the president of the american university of central asia, we should be preparing people for an ai future by teaching “skills that make humans human.” the workers of tomorrow, he notes, “will require training in ethics, to help them navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer be taken for granted.”
and we will responsibly share ai knowledge by publishing educational materials, best practices, and research that enable more people to develop useful ai applications.
to invest in research to better understand the impact of ai systems on human decision-making generally.
continued re-negotiation requires fairness, transparency, accountability
as ai continues to advance, problem solving, and learning abilities will enable robots to be adaptive and responsive with minimal human feedback.
1. it is necessary to survey and analyze the long-term interaction of people with affective systems with different protocols and metrics to measure the modifications of habits, norms, and principles as well as the cultural and societal impacts.
empirical findings premised on these diversity theories often are offered in support of the argument that individuals who are similar to their work groups report positive attitudes largely as a result of this feeling of belonging.
intelligent machines aren’t content with calculating better than human beings; they can interact with sentient beings, keep them company and take care of them.
agency requires that the control be exercised by the subject at the time the data is used, not at the time the data is collected.
thus, is any con- tribution of ai to better healthcare methods already “ai for good”, or is more needed?
in a world of machine learning systems, who will bear accountability for harming human rights?
thus, educators and other parties involved in curriculum development should consider the opportunity to craft curricula that will make their students aware of this absence of standards, and also encourage the exploration of various practices as candidates for “best practices” and their possible further elevation to standards in ai technology and policy.
initiatives that are related to the efficiency and effective management of public- and social-sector entities, including strong institutions, transparency, and financial management.
in this review, several types of practices have emerged as likely to enhance inclusion, such as infor- mation access and participation in decision making (mor barak & cherin, 1998; nishii, 2010), conflict resolution procedures (roberson, 2006), communication facilitation (janssens & zanoni, 2007), and freedom from stereotyping (bilimoria et al., 2008).
 ensure that conflicts of interest are managed, particularly among stakeholders that will benefit from widespread ai adoption.
for human rights standards that is directed
personal cloud, attribute wallet and personal data management tools, consent engine and dual sided permission apis.
a more sophistication ai agent might autonomously model its owner's thought processes based on analysis of brain activity readings and detailed observation of its owner’s behaviour, in other words: by using its owner’s private data.
the social sector has an especially difficult challenge in hiring and retaining both types of talent, given the high salaries that experienced practitioners can earn at commercial companies.
for several contributions in the ai for good global summit, it was difficult to see from the slide-set presentation what roles knowledge and interventions played.
my goal wasn’t to prove or disprove the usefulness of ai’s ethical concerns for businesspeople, but rather provide a platform to have them be explored by our business leader readers here at emerj.
the german federal government is committed to achieve and maintain leading excellence by global standards in research and development and application of ai in germany and europe.
we also expect that p7007 will be relevant to companies that work in correlated domains, like machine learning, big data, iot, etc.
by leveraging existing work in computational sustainability or using existing indicators to model unintended consequences of specific systems or applications, well-being could be better understood and increased
a widely quoted university of oxford study estimated that 47 percent of total employment in the united states is at risk due to computerization.23 a world bank study predicted that 57 percent of jobs in oecd countries could be automated.24 and according to a recent paper on robots and jobs, researchers found that each robot deployed per thousand workers decreased employment by 6.2 workers and caused a decline in wages of 0.7 percent.25
another instance where ai can prove effective is in providing automated question answering via email to improve government interaction with citizens.
in computer science, will concerns about the impact of ai mean that the study of ethics will become a requirement for computer programmers and researchers?
driving requires tremendous awareness and the ability to react within a small fraction of a second, something which if you think about it is kind of amazing we can do at all.
by the time individuals reach early adulthood, they are simultaneously acting across these roles, generating vast amounts of personal data that
on the other hand, adoption of ai and automation technologies is affected by technical feasibility, cost of development but also factors such as the labor market dynamics, overall benefit (cost-performance tradeoffs) and the regulatory and social acceptance.
in the future, transparency about such intended behavior change (and the means with which it can be encouraged) may be brought into question, and companies with clear standards may be more likely to gain trust and avoid legal hiccups.
corporate culture should incentivize technical staff to voice the full range of ethical questions to relevant corporate actors throughout the full product lifecycle.
here is a concept for simple a/is well-being impact assessment, based on maslow’s hierarchy of need (where the hierarchy would be considered an accredited and contextually appropriate metric of use).
while sdl may surpass the use of analytics for this use case in the next few years, it is important to note that analytics techniques have a lower barrier to deployment and may thus be a preferable solution for an organization, given the available resources and technical capabilities.
first, we should understand why it’s hard to do this; second, and more importantly, we should understand why we expect it to be easy to do, and why this expectation is wrong.
review boards should be complemented by other measures to draw upon diverse expertise and societal views, such as advisory groups, relevant workshops and conferences, public engagement processes, and other forums for discussion and debate.
they rarely interrogate history or philosophy; as a rule, they demand information relevant to their immediate practical needs.
 ensure appropriate levels of human control in the design and use of automated (algorithmic) decision-making.
those who advocate for ethical design within a company should not be seen as innovators seeking the best ultimate outcomes for the company, end- users, and society.
as governments move to adopt new automated decision systems, aias can similarly help agencies and the public determine whether these systems promote fairness, justice, and due process or whether they infringe on those values.
as maciej kuziemski of the university of oxford outs it, ai will not just “change human life,” but will also alter “the boundaries and meaning of being human,” beginning with our self-conception as laboring beings.
but what good does it bring our society to have a robot pose as human?
this was the case with one of the projects we observed, which had the ultimate goal of building a routing application for people with limited mobility.
but the best way to tame future abuses of our data is to be among the players as rule makers, not rule takers.
not all ethical dilemmas have design solutions, but being aware of design practices can break down many of the practical barriers that stand in the way of shared, robust ethical standards.
it is not a coincidence that the companies leading the charge in ai are those signaling their efforts to address ai ethics to the market.
a few years ago, after an earthquake in nepal, the facebook community raised $15 million to help people recover and rebuild -- which was the largest crowdfunded relief effort in history.
in addition to addressing issues relating to data, governments have an important role to play in promoting responsible and effective uses of ai itself.
to use satellite data in disaster scenarios, access is the key challenge to overcome.
 ai deployment exists within a social architecture of cultural, legal, economic, and political contexts.
first of all, production of ai services generates highly qualified work: researchers, data scientists, engineers and other specialized technicians.
p7001 provides a standard for developing autonomous technologies that can assess their own actions and help users understand why a technology makes certain decisions in different situations.
ai and in particular ds are strongly linked to knowledge: the goal of ai is often described in a procedure-oriented way, such as in the definition pre- sented in section 3: to “[develop] systems endowed with the intellectual processes characteristic of hu- mans, such as the ability to reason, discover mean- ing, generalize, or learn from past experience”.
this work is published with the understanding that ieee and the ieee-sa industry connections activity members are supplying information through this work, not attempting to render engineering or other professional services.
privacy guidelines ultimately allowed them to serve as the building blocks for the european union’s comprehensive data protection directive in 1995 and its successor, the general data protection regulation.
i personally don’t like the idea of a robot-nanny unless the kid is old enough so the kid’s parents consider the kid able to stay at home by himself and consider the kid to be able to actually evaluate if the robot-nanny behavior makes sense.
thus, for example, design in the interest of one specific right or value could also profit from asking the questions and using the recommen- dation checklist.
issues of data quality as well as potential bias and fairness will also need to be addressed if the data are to be deployed usefully.
while we have yet to automate all of our planning and resource allocation decisions, advances in machine learning and neural networks, as well as our ability to collect data through even more network sensors, are bringing automation at least to certain parts of our civic problem-solving processes.
individual is not treated as an organizational insider with unique value in the work group but there are other employees or groups who are insiders.
ai usage frequency takes into account the number of individual cases for which a model would need to be run and how often the model would be run.
one reason is that china gathers and deploys vastly more of ai’s vital resource: data.
1 this recommendation concurs with the multiple recommendations of the united states national science and technology council, one hundred year study of artificial intelligence, japan’s cabinet office council, european parliament’s committee on legal affairs and others.
good ai governance must not repeat the past missteps of policy.
1. for users, transparency is important because it provides a simple way for them to understand what the system is doing and why.
if the ford government believes a basic income will discourage work, it should allow the pilot to continue to prove its point, says the letter.
in addition, the national labor exchange, which is managed by the national association of state workforce agencies and includes
75/2011; international data privacy law 1, no.
respondents represented organizations with an average size of 4,701 employees and represented a variety of industries: 47.8% in services; 26.6% in manufacturing; 11.0% in retail trade; 8.9% in public administration; 3.3% in finance, insurance, and real estate; and 1.4% in transportation, communi- cations, electric, gas, and sanitary services; and 1.0% construction.
problem complexity increases significantly where use cases rely on several ai capabilities to work together cohesively and require multiple different data-type inputs.
recent years have seen growing support for attempts to solve complex social problems through the use of increasingly available, increasingly combinable, and increasingly computable digital data.
finally, besides the societal contract system that helps manage interactions, individuals will need their own private ai and automation tools to help them pursue their own aims and interests and keep pace with the flood of demands.
as an ethics board is formed it might: evaluate complaints, resolve ethical conflicts related to artificial intelligence and consent issues, improve upon current ethics procedures for consent, request independent investigations, review licensure or certification determinations, recommend professional penalties or discipline to organizations, and/or file legal claims based on findings.
however, as systems approach and surpass agi, unanticipated or unintended system behavior (due to, e.g., architecture choices, training or goal specification failures, mistakes in implementation, or mistaken assumptions) will become increasingly dangerous and difficult to correct.
4) industrial ais development must be compatible with acceptable working conditions at every step of their life cycle, from natural resources extraction to recycling, and including data processing.
a high level of technical expertise is required to create a public policy, legal, and regulatory environment that allows innovation to flourish while protecting the public and gaining public trust.1 policy makers and market leaders should pursue several strategies for developing this expertise:
be designed to nudge people for the user’s personal benefit and/or for the
cities, regions and countries that are able to create innovative institutional frameworks for the controlled test and deployment of new technologies will increase their chances of attracting research and development facilities, innovators and new business — they will jump ahead of their competitors.
a system to be “high risk,” then it must consult with its local governmental data protection authority.23 however, dpias apply to both public and private organizations, are not shared with the public, and have no built-in external researcher review or other individualized due process mechanisms.
for example, if the objective of the ai solution is to detect the incidence of stroke in a patient and identify the subtype of stroke, then a promising solution may be to oversample minority class data to overcome initial imbalances.53 in the case of predictions of sexual assault prevalence based on geography, a synthetic data set may be the better option because available sets of real data may be too small for effective sampling.
medical or biometric information: medical conditions, genetic information, blood type, blood and serum test results, fingerprints, dna, heart or brain activity, blood pressure, tension, polygraph data, images of self
in the end, xerox « sacrificed a bit of efficiency for fairness » by removing the « time to commute » indicator from its model ».
current discussions include advocacy for the positive impact, as well as warnings, based on the potential harm to privacy, discrimination, loss
data is not discoverable and often relies on one’s personal network.
it consists of 52 world-class experts with a wide range of backgrounds and experience, including representatives from civil society, industry and academia.
not all people are supposed to become ai expert, but they must be helped to develop a sensitivity towards data.
another example is the use of ai to help educate children who are on the autism spectrum.
she focused on “the changing structure of organizations, shifting lines of authority and communications, effects on decision-making processes, and a variety of other administrative and industrial related questions.” ultimately, she aimed to “promote a better understanding of the real effects of automation on the office.”
it’s a way of doing one’s work that must remain part of the technologist’s mindset, must be integrated in their daily work habits and those of their colleagues, and must be reinforced at all levels of leadership  so that the retention and ongoing cultivation of ethical design and engineering skills (as well as ethical skills in other company roles) is noticed, acknowledged, and rewarded.
in times like these, the most important thing we at facebook can do is develop the social infrastructure to give people the power to build a global community that works for all of us.
recent developments in artificial intelligence (ai) — and particularly machine learning (ml) — are impressive, and there is increasing awareness of the potential impacts of these new technologies on work and the economy in general.
rus- sel and norvig [22, p. 16] implicitly define knowledge as a structured collection of “information [...] put into a form that a computer can reason with”.
personal data are “any informa on relat- ing to an iden  ed or iden  able natu- ral person (‘data subject’)” (ar cle 4).
this self-assessment process is also an opportunity for agencies to develop expertise when commissioning and purchasing automated decision systems, and for vendors to foster public trust in their systems.
• ieee p7010tm, well-being metrics standard for ethical ai and autonomous systems.
a literature review to determine the status of academic research on the issue of a/is impacts on human well-being needs to be conducted and aggregated
possible solutions to make the ai sector more inclusive include ensuring that industry, and developers in particular, are aware of the importance and need for diversity.
this is not fair to the poor people who have made their plans.”
together, the lack of credible public engagement may render the declaration technocratic or politically illegitimate in the eyes of the public and of policymakers.
many companies, from start-ups to tech giants, understand that ethical considerations in tech design are increasingly important, but are
in particular by ensuring a/is are accountable and transparent.
with a method scope of “good” in general (rather
finally, i want to emphasize that the vast majority of conversations on facebook are social, not ideological.
public agencies will need to commit to accountability in both their internal technology development plans and their vendor and procurement relationships.
karlin is studying the role of ai within the government and as part of public service delivery, but not addressing the governance of ai itself.
this is complemented by increasing investments from public and private side to leverage the usage of ai technology for a wide range of applications.
the more we build a detailed understanding of these or similar principles — and the more technology developers and users can share best practices to implement them — the better served the world will be as we begin to contemplate societal rules to govern ai.
of internationally recognized human rights in the ﬁelds affected by the rollout of artiﬁcial intelligence.
the development and use of artiﬁcial intelligence systems (ais) must permit the growth of the well-being of all sentient beings.
47% of early adopters are concerned with making the wrong strategic decisions based on ai recommendations
for individuals to be at the center of their data, policy makers and society at large will need to rethink the nature of standards and human rights as they have been applied to the physical world and to re-contextualize their application in the digital world.
the first is that the performance of new ai systems is similar or even superior to that of humans, for specific and narrow tasks — for example, facial recognition, translation, checking medical images for cancerous cells or playing the chinese game of go.
the impact of usability, social acceptance, user experience, and societal impact on collaboration with humanoid robots.” phd thesis, university of salzburg, 2010.
well-being metrics employed for a/is should include measures for ecological/environmental sustainability that point the direction toward stewardship and restoration of natural systems and ensure equitable environmental justice.
the use of this standard will have several benefits that include:
for international corporates a simple and clear regulatory framework fostering ai innovations in international markets by reducing unnecessary constraints is of particular interest.
but agencies should also consider harms of representation – the way a system may unintentionally underscore or reinforce the subordination of some social and cultural groups.
that are essential or useful for social good applications are in private hands or in public institutions that might not be willing to share their data.
ultimately, the ability of government systems and public authorities to adapt will determine their survival.
the exploration of artificial intelligence.
these fundamental differences between the traditions need to be first and foremost mutually understood and then addressed in one form
the partnership aims to create a model that can be replicated across the united states, aiming to help millions of americans  nd rewarding careers.
these data are impor- tant for technical reasons as much as for narra ve reasons – how can and should these two mo va ons be addressed, and how can the choices made be made in a transparent and accountable way?
 stakeholders from both the private and public sector have essential roles to play in ensuring that ai can achieve its potential for social good.
as we have seen with the recent european general data protection regulation (gdpr), cross-jurisdictional solutions require multi-stakeholder input and would benefit from multi-lateral coordination.
that their operation must be transparent to a wide range of stakeholders for different reasons (noting that the level of transparency will necessarily be different for each stakeholder).
in a/is ethics by women, people of color, students, and other groups representing the full spectrum of society that we are hoping to positively influence with our work.
japan - the conference of advisory experts of japan’s ministry of internal affairs and communications has drafted ai r&d principles to promote the societal and economic benefits of ai while mitigating risks, such as transparency and loss of control.
and other artificial intelligence applications on weapons systems is not only occurring, but
one can hardly go a day without hearing about a new study describing the far- reaching implications of advances in artificial intelligence.
1) ais must not threaten the preservation of fulﬁlling moral and emotional human relationships, and should be developed with the goal of fostering these relationships and reducing people’s vulnerability and isolation.
the relationship between a/is and a human being is a personal relationship in japanese culture and, one could argue, a very natural one.
it is also of great import to civil society organizations that work on behalf of citizens to create better living environments.
ethically aligned design: a vision for prioritizing human well-being with artificial intelligence and autonomous systems, version 1. ieee, 2016.
the government has the opportunity to leverage support from the expertise and experience and can use this as an avenue for attracting fresh talent into the organization.
multi-year discussions on international legal agreements around autonomous systems in the context of armed conflict are occurring at the united nations (un), but professional ethics about such systems can and should have ethical standards covering a broad array
the unfortunate accidents caused by autonomous vehicles can be seen as cases of over-trust: in each case the human driver falsely believed that the automated system in control of the driving was capable of performing at a level at which it was not capable of.
and yet access to and use of data also involves policy issues that range from ensuring the protection of individual privacy and the safeguarding of sensitive and proprietary information to answering a range of new competition law questions.
the german federal government has been funding projects in the field of ai for the development of ai specific projects and with the focus on basic and applied research.
it has moved humanity forward by creating new opportunities, building great wealth, and opening unexplored frontiers, from the vastness of space to the world of particle physics.
in institutions without a veterinary school, it is unclear that the organization would have the relevant resources necessary to conduct an ethical review of such research.
what consequences may these constellations have on the common good?
“big data: a tool for inclusion or exclusion?
the gdpr language may be a good starting point for some agencies, but will require some shaping to match the appropriate contexts.
as adair turner of the institute for new economic thinking points out, it is not hard to imagine “a world in which solar-powered robots, manufactured by robots and controlled by artificial intelligence systems, deliver most of the goods and services that support human welfare.” at the same time, the social theorist jeremy rifkin, in the zero marginal cost society, shows how shared platforms could produce countless new goods and services, and how new business models might emerge to monetize those platforms, all at no cost to consumers.
on a daily basis, people use their voices to share their views in ways that can spread around the world and grow into movements.
when represented in this way, it refers to the overlapping concerns about the design, development, deployment, decommissioning, and adoption of autonomous or intelligent software when installed into other software and/or hardware systems that are able to exercise independent reasoning, decision-making, intention forming, and motivating skills according to self-defined principles.
prior, growth was associated with “a certain amount of dispersion of function and authority.” now that data could be processed quickly, records could be kept centrally, reducing the need for branch-level paperwork.
1. such guardians could provide personal information control to users by helping them track what they have agreed to share and what that means to them, while also scanning each user’s environment to set personal privacy settings accordingly.
i should clarify that this won’t be a singlecodeofethics— each company and industry will have to come up with their own unique guidelines.
11 see for example, cédric villani, for a meaningful artificial intelligence: towards a french and european strategy, march 2018, aiforhumanity.fr/pdfs/missionvillani_report_eng-vf.pdf; will hurd and robin kelly, rise of the machines: artificial intelligence and its growing impact on u.s. policy, us house of representatives, subcommittee on information technology, september 2018, oversight.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/ai-white-paper.pdf; pan-canadian artificial intelligence strategy, cifar, https://www.cifar.ca/ai/pan-canadian- artificial-intelligence-strategy; tim dutton, “an overview of national ai strategies,” medium, june 28, 2018, medium.com/politics-ai/an-overview-of-national-ai-strategies-2a70ec6edfd.
autonomous robots or ais – including of course robots with embedded ais) that – if they make a bad decision – could cause harm to humans.
and from the public who don’t want their private data revealed.
“while other governments all over the world are beginning to design their own programs, ours is already running,” martinescu and valleé conclude in their letter.
providing individuals with tools, like a personal data cloud, can empower users to understand how their data is an asset as well as how much data they produce.
this raises data protection issues that could well outweigh any positive benefits.
the eesc opinion also calls for a european ai infrastructure with open-source learning environments that respect privacy, real-life test environments and high-quality data sets for developing and training ai systems.
“big data’s disparate impact.” california law review 104 (2016): 671–732.
digital platforms such as linkedin, taskrabbit and upwork offer insights about in-demand skills based on job or task openings.
walldorf — sap se (nyse: sap) today announced its guiding principles for artificial intelligence (ai) and its creation of an external ai ethics advisory panel – the first european technology company to do so.
thanks in part to the availability of much more data, researchers have made important strides in these technologies in the past few years.
we can help establish direct dialogue and accountability between people and our elected leaders.
participants heard first hand how the canadian government is beginning to evaluate and consult on ai’s impact on human rights, specifically equality, privacy, accountability and freedom of expression.
- korea has lunched a [strategy for artificial intelligence][57].
the longer we defer developing the capacity to govern ai, the harder it will be to govern it, and to use public policy as a means of responding or engaging the world around us.
according to buddhism, ethics is concerned with behaving in such a way that the subject ultimately realizes the goal of liberation.
28 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
public acceptance of new technologies is currently maintained by a lack of technical understanding of technologies and their scale of deployment.
society has had traditional safeguards on the use and application of personal information to encourage innovation and to protect minorities.
with regard to lead questions 3 and 4, ai is partic- ularly implicated due to its special relationship with knowledge (lead question 3) and on account of the specific side effects and dynamics (lead question 4) of big data, which is a key driver for ai.
and use of a/is, people and institutions need clarity around the manufacture and deployment of these systems to establish responsibility
this is complicated by the data-handling processes behind true “consent.” privacy rights are often not respected in the design and business model of services using said data.
the cost of human suffering, whatever the cause, and the benefits of alleviating it, are impossible to precisely gauge and compare.
among the application areas covered were: cps for people with disabilities and for daily life; for healthcare; for agriculture and the food supply; for manufacturing; for energy and critical infrastructures; for logistics and transport; and for community security and safety.
a form of an algorithmic guardian are often labeled as pims, or personal information management services.
by looking at four prior cases of transformative military technology—nuclear, aerospace, cyber, and biotech—the authors develop lessons learned and recommendations for national security policy toward ai.
yet, there are micro-level decisions where a human operator may have an opportunity to question the command.
a reasonable education agency’s de nition, for example, should include an automated decision system such as the educational value-added assessment system, used by many jurisdictions for automated teacher evaluations.35 the text of that agency’s de nition might include something like the “systems, tools, or statistical models used to measure
traditional metrics of prosperity do not take into account the full effect of a/is technologies on human well-being.
this approach is in direct contrast to that of the european union, where the general data protection regulation is giving europe the opportunity to develop genuine capacity for ai governance.
of computational sustainability, the field is designed to provide “computational models for a sustainable environment, economy, and society” and their project summary notes that:
36 elizabeth bondi et al., spot poachers in action: augmenting conservation drones with automatic detection in near real time, 32nd aaai conference on artificial intelligence, april 27, 2018, teamcore.usc.edu/papers/2018/spot-camera-ready.pdf.
the topic was also covered in eleven of the contributions to the fourth venue, in which ai + health: artificial intelligence – a game changer for universal health coverage?
at the same time, ai poses clear challenges to business and government.
mr. zuckerberg surely didn’t want his company to facilitate malevolent intervention into the democratic process; and yet, as investigative reporters discovered, facebook’s advertising salespeople and engineers made great efforts to help domestic political-advocacy groups, including the anti-clinton, anti-islam organization secure america now, reach their targeted audiences.
... [w]e plan to cope with this challenge by studying management and
to put it in numbers, according to the mckinsey global institute the applications of deep learning may account already for as much as 3.5 to 5.8 trillion dollars only in data analytics techniques (see figure below for additional details)11. in fact, as the pro capita productivity is declining (0.5% negative) from a positive 2.4% during the boom of the internet, ai has the potential to reverse the trend in spite of a declining workforc e due to the demographic megatrend (fertility index reached 2.4 average worldwide with advanced economies well below the 2.1 threshold needed to maintain the population stable).
no office job is safe,” says sebastian thrun, an ai professor at stanford known for his work on self-driving cars.
collectors and generators of data, whether governments or companies, could grant greater access to ngos and others seeking to use the data for public service and could potentially be mandated to do so in certain cases.
ai affords a tremendous opportunity not only to increase efficiencies and reduce costs, but to build nudging process with responsible and ethical rules.
this paper organizes and articulates these contributions as a way to better understand the opportunities and challenge that surface through multi-sector collaborations in data science for social good, and the open questions that these relationships spark.
benefit of finer-grained control of consent
we don’t have all the answers, but we’re fortunate to work every day with people who are asking the right questions.
to overcome the technical challenges in verifiability and auditability of a/is operations; a/is oversight systems (“a/is guardians”) or methods such as quantitative input influence (“qii”) measures could facilitate this process.
the moral machine website was designed to collect data on the moral acceptability of decisions made by autonomous vehicles in situations of unavoidable accidents, in which they must decide who is spared and who is sacrificed.
human cognition loses its personal character.
many adults think that the crimes described in comic books are so far removed from the child’s life that for children they are merely something imaginative or fantastic.
central to human agency is control.
more specific societal goals, for example fairness (non-discrimination), are pursued by research com- munities such as fairness, accountability and trans- parencyinmachinelearningandbeyond.10 another example is the protection of privacy as the goal of var- ious research communities including (in ds) privacy- preserving data mining and data publishing.
however, individuals currently lack clarity around how to access, organize, and share their data to ensure unintended consequences are not the laws are generally enforceable result.
p7010 –wellbeing metrics standard for ethical artificial intelligence and autonomous systems
and it is working with the state of colorado’s apprenticeship of ce to help people understand the value of apprenticeships.
program autonomous systems to be able to recognize user behavior as being those of specific types of behavior and to hold expectations as
moral values
the “challenge” asks social media users to post side-by-side images of the first profile photo they ever shared on the social media platform (or one from approximately 10 years ago) alongside an image of themselves from the present.
24 see for example, steven kelley, “seeing ai: arti cial intelligence for blind and visually impaired use,” visionaware, american foundation for the blind, visionaware.org/info/everyday-living/helpful-products/using-apps/seeing-ai-app/1235.
this work is independent, re ects our own views, and has not been commissioned by any business, government, or other institution.
this is why bill gates, co-founder of microsoft corporation, last year suggested creating a special tax for robots, in order to pay for a universal basic income.
key elements framing this “common good” conversation relate to the need for it to be human-centered and include the need for accountability and to ensure that outcomes
this creates a digital chicken-and-the-egg scenario, where women need mobile technology to gain access to an education, but they can’t use said technology unless they’ve already been educated.
12 “code of conduct | data science association.” data science code of professional conduct.
building on research that has found health benefits due to connections with others and feeling valued and included (e.g., firth-cozens & hardy, 1992; mor barak & levin, 2002; reynolds & kaplan, 1990), more extensive research testing the effects of inclusion on an individual’s well-being (e.g., stress, health) is likely to be a fruitful endeavor.
all this thinking, deliberation, and communication was not treated as orthogonal to the work of data science, but as an essential component of data science for social good.
each of these contexts presents unique challenges, attention to which can inform the trustworthy use of a/is for the common good.
a lack of knowledge about ai, what it can do, and how to implement it, paired with emerging distrust of how ai will be used, represent significant barriers to adoption.
then, we adjust parameters to induce a 3 percentage point decline in both female and male labour force participation, which is in line with the 2.8 percentage point decline from 2009 to 2015. we find that a 3 percentage point reduction in participation causes a 0.1 percentage point increase in the aggregate unemployment rate.
automating a particular task, so that it can be done more quickly or cheaply, increases the demand for human workers to do the other tasks around it that have not been automated.
● for humanity to have a future worth wanting, the growing power of technology must be matchedbygrowthinhumanw  isdom &r esponsibility ;oureffortsmustberebalancedto fuel the latter kind of growth that is presently in neglect
50 jeffrey dastin, “amazon scraps secret ai recruiting tool that showed bias against women,” reuters, october 10, 2018, reuters.com/article/amazoncom-jobs-automation/rpt-insight-amazon-scraps-secret-ai-recruiting- tool-that-showed-bias-against-women-idusl2n1wp1ro.
ai is now finding its way from research into an increasingly broad base of applications in business.
“the national artificial intelligence research and development strategic plan.” washington, dc: office of science and technology policy, 2016.
framing interacts with ai for the common good on multiple levels.
the proceedings of the fat(ml) conferences as a specific branch of ai for social good, see section 2.3. as barabas et al.
safety and beneficence of alleged artificial general intelligence (agi) and artificial superintelligence (asi)
the social web and privacy.
this is not to say that those partner organizations are not making any contributions of monetary value, as supporting and collaborating with dssg teams takes significant time and resources; the point is simply that university affiliates themselves are usually being paid by someone else.
either before or after they see this summary (randomized order), users are asked whether they want to “help us better understand their decisions.” users who click ‘yes’ are directed to a survey of their demographic, political, and religious characteristics.
• institute for human rights and business (ihrb), and shift, sectictor guide on implementing the un guiding principles on business and human rights, 2013.
to address this challenge, we deployed the moral machine, an online experimental platform designed to explore the moral dilemmas faced by autonomous vehicles.
of systems and devices with attributes that resemble those of human beings in terms of their autonomy, ability to perform intellectual tasks and, in the case of some robots, their physical
while improving public understanding of a/is technologies through education is becoming increasingly important, so is the need
we will design ai systems that provide appropriate opportunities for feedback, relevant explanations, and appeal.
as a general rule, the limits of one principle’s application are defined by another principle’s field of application.
for example, if an agency fails to disclose a system that should have reasonably been considered an automated decision system, or if it allows vendors to make overbroad trade secret claims blocking meaningful system access,29 the public should have the chance to raise concerns with an agency oversight body or directly in a court of law if the agency refuses to rectify these problems after the public comment period.
relevant expert and legislative committees should commission a study on the impact on well-being of deep genomics, meaning at the convergence of genomics and a/is.
 pay close attention to scenarios in which human control of ai systems can be lost.
the u.s. government should consider a presidential commission of eminent thinkers to help develop a national vision.
second, we believe that the governance of ai should be responsible, as implied by the principle of democracy.
effective policy addresses the protection and promotion of safety, privacy, intellectual property rights, human rights, and cybersecurity, as well as the public understanding of the potential impact of intelligent and autonomous technical systems on society.
as stated by bell (2007: 3), “after more than two decades of diversity research, four decades of antidiscrimination leg- islation, and extraordinary media attention to diversity, discrimination and exclusion in organizations persist.” thus, in this article we argue for the importance of developing the construct of inclusion with the goal of inspiring research that enhances both theory and practice.
we have no partiality to the scheme designed by the previous ontario government, but we do feel it is good enough to test the main theses of basic income.
she notes that key-punch operation — one of the main areas of job growth — is “universally regarded as a dead-end occupation, with no promotional opportunities.” most key-punch operators she interviewed found their prior clerical work more interesting because they were up and about, interacting with colleagues and customers.
after all, reaping the full benefits of ai will itself require acts of imagination.
thus, lack of transparency both increases the risk and magnitude of harm (users not understanding the systems they are using) and also increases the difficulty of ensuring accountability (see principle 3— accountability).
while just over half the use cases in our library can leverage solutions that can be created by talent with relatively lower levels of ai experience, the remaining use cases have added complexity due to a combination of factors, depending on the speci c case.
ai algorithms contain proprietary know-how and might remain a trade secret or be considered as intellectual property.
the use of such trademarks herein is not an assertion of ownership of such trademarks by accenture and is not intended to represent or imply the existence of an association between accenture and the lawful owners of such trademarks.
all such solution options ought to precede the design, development, deployment, and use of weapons systems with automated targeting and firing functions.
the real challenge is the uneven rates of assimilation of these technologies into different levels of human organization.
3 ways artificial intelligence will change the world for the better
christian hyldahl, atp chief executive officer: “with the increased global challenges of short-termism, mistrust and need for better governance and transparency, we believe it is important with a continuous focus on sustainable growth.
while society is being transformed by disruptive innovation during this transition, it will be your own individual adaptability that will determine if you are a winner or a loser.
• that automated weapons have audit trails to help guarantee accountability and control.
this map is used to monitor change over time and inform conservation interventions for the reef ecosystems that are under threat.3 at thorn, an international anti–human trafficking nonprofit organization, a combination of face detection and person identification, social network analysis, natural language processing, and analytics is being used to identify victims of sexual exploitation on the internet and dark web.
as well, greater proportions of women had work experience and higher levels of education, resulting in longer periods of work.
supply chains (sc) are being disrupted by digital technologies and artificial intelligence (ai).
these are groups that upon joining, quickly become the most important part of our social network experience and an important part of our physical support structure.
as jay thornton has noted , scholars in the social psychology of procedural justice, such as gerald leventhal and tom tyler, have done empirical work that provides exactly this insight into people’s subjective views.
in the survey, respondents differentiated between the terms diversity and inclusion and indicated that the terms describe separate types of work envi- ronments.
2. governmental use of a/is: transparency and individual rights 3. legal accountability for harm caused by a/is
the most narrowly defined community is a single person, and a/is may well have to adapt to the unique norms of a given individual, such as norms of arranging a disabled person’s home to accommodate certain physical limitations.
academically oriented language about ethics, that feedback is often about crucial design detail gained by experience (form, sound, space, dialogue concepts).
and these possibilities will be multiplied by emerging technology breakthroughs in fields such as artificial intelligence, robotics, the internet of things, autonomous vehicles, 3-d printing, nanotechnology, biotechnology, materials science, energy storage, and quantum computing.
every young person needs to understand how computers work, how to navigate the internet, how to use productivity tools, and how to keep their computers secure.
artificial intelligence ethics certification for responsible
 support the promotion of trust in ai through the public commitment of organizations to specific principles, and further, through verification by third party compliance audits.
2 see, for example, how to prevent discriminatory outcomes in machine learning, world economic forum, march 12, 2018. the institute for electrical and electronics engineers has announced the approval of three standards projects inspired by the work of its global initiative for ethical considerations in arti cial intelligence and autonomous systems.
but as we’ve seen over the past 20 years, as digital advances bring us daily bene ts they also raise a host of complex questions and broad concerns about how technology will affect society.
in the absence of strong data literacy and standard processes, these concerns act as barriers to improving the transparency of government.
businesses should engage in discussions about the importance of next-generation versions of unemployment insurance and employment services that take into account newer models of work; anticipate that individuals may move in and out of the workforce with greater frequency; promote greater labor mobility; and help workers gain new skills and connect with new opportunities.
describes an older method of subjective judgments of relations among valued outcomes and a newer,
setting standards for oversight will allow canada to set the standard for the world.
when asked about their usage of ai-powered tools and devices at work and at home, 86 percent of canadians said they currently don’t use them and nearly 50 percent don’t think they will within the next five years.
• accountability: as duty bearers, states should be obliged to behave responsibly, seek to represent the greater public interest, and be open to public scrutiny of their a/is policy.
and then god is the abstract patriarch on top of it all, the omnipotent, omniscient, benevolent patriarch who is also the seat of all our logical paradoxes, made of the same stuff as gödel’s incompleteness theorem, the guy who can be at once father and son, be the circle with the center everywhere and the circumference nowhere, the master narrator who says, don’t worry, i got this, sure that hurricane killed tons of people, sure it seems strange that you can just walk into a store around the corner a buy a gun and there are mass shootings all the time, but trust me, if you could see the big picture like i see the big picture, you’d get how this confusing pain will actually result in the greatest good to the most people.
despite the growth of such programs, few people in ai expect the proportion of women or ethnic minorities in their field to grow very swiftly.
but when we ask for explanations, what we’re really often interested in is which facts were both salient (in that changing them would have changed the outcome materially) and mutable (in that changes to them are worth discussing).
developers themselves should be alert to such considerations, review boards can provide valuable additional oversight by fielding a diversity of disciplines and deliberating without direct investment in the advancement of research goals.
clean water and sanitation ai 2 use case
think of an autonomous vehicle that is about to crash, and cannot find a trajectory that would save everyone.
we believe that both the mission of the embankment project for inclusive capitalism (epic) and its value drivers are closely aligned with the aspirations expressed in our credo.
as an ethical framework, it provides canada’s only example of work toward the governance of ai, albeit largely in the form of questions.
other priority orders can stem from the general override that norms in the larger community exert on norms and preferences of an individual user.
effective management of social sector
it also appears, from the sentence, that the possible tracking of individuals is con- sidered a security/safety risk (because it could lead to a acks) rather than a typ- ical privacy risk (by which an individual migrant would want to keep their iden-  ty or proper es hidden).
developments in subdisciplines such as machine vision, natural language understanding, reasoning, planning and robotics have produced an ongoing stream of innovations, many of which have already become part of our daily lives.
the authors hope this paper will inform the legislative process and inspire more members of the legal community to become involved now.
bias can emerge in perception (e.g., a passport application ai rejected an asian man’s photo because it insisted his eyes were closed; griffiths, 2016); information processing (e.g., speech recognition systems are notoriously less accurate for female speakers than for male speakers; tatman, 2016); decisions (e.g., a criminal risk assessment device overpredicts recidivism
our previous work did not find a strong effect of this variable on moral preferences12.
at one company with over 3,000 clerical workers, the introduction of edp to replace two accounting functions left 286 people out of a job, with 982 others affected in some day-to-day way.
 work with key stakeholders to assist in developing a goa enterprise data management program to provide guidance and coordinate the requirements of the shared data ecosystem.
governments also have an important role to play in funding core research to further advance ai development and support multidisciplinary research that focuses on studying and fostering solutions to the socioeconomic issues that may arise as ai technologies are deployed.
the seminal question of determining the key performance indicators (kpis) of their success once introduced into society.
discuss accountability as it applies broadly to ai, while recognizing that certain ethical issues that have become associated with ai, most notably explainability, relate most directly to deep learning.
and multiple stakeholders will need to commit to storing data that can be accessed in a coordinated way and to use the same data standards where possible to ensure seamless interoperability.
after completing a session of 13 dilemmas, users are presented with a summary of their decisions: which character they spared the most; which character they sacrificed the most; and the relative importance of the nine target moral dimensions in their decisions, compared to their importance to the average of all other users so far.
• europe; the introduction of the general data protection regulation (gdpr), personal services directive ii (psd2), and eprivacy.
anonymized storage of data provided through the app may ensure security and privacy in the event of a data breach, although there are some doubts in the industry about the effectiveness of anonymization.
arti cial intelligence has large potential to contribute to global economic activity.
to access common services, citizens and consumers regularly must agree to jargon-filled terms of service that relinquish control over their data without a complete understanding of all its potential downstream uses.
review boards should be composed of impartial experts with a diversity of relevant knowledge and experience.
since the standard aims to allow for the legitimate ends of different users, such as businesses, it should assist businesses in assuring customers that they have taken steps to ensure fairness appropriate to their stated business aims and practices.
sets used to train them.7 for example, a recent report by mit and stanford researchers showed how some commercially available facial recognition systems perform poorly when applied to faces of women and people of color.8 a study by harvard’s berkman klein center shows how some popular ai use cases could both positively and negatively impact speci c aspects
creating a standards set also enables an oversight body to recognize these issues before they arise and avoid them, making a safer and more recognizable world for all parties.
this domain differs from the others in that it focuses on  ltering or counteracting content that could mislead and distort, including false and polarizing information disseminated through the relatively new channels of the internet and social media.
perhaps most significant is the project of producing artificial intelligence—a technology capable of inventing and solving complex, seemingly abstract problems by processes that seem to replicate those of the human mind.
to avoid unintended negative consequences and to increase value for users and society, clear guidance on what well-being is and how it should be measured is needed.
the authors of the 1979 belmont report commissioned by the act identi ed the three primary principles of bioethics: bene cence (research should be carefully constructed to do good in the world), respect for persons (research must respect personal values such as autonomy, privacy and dignity) and justice (research must further social equity).
additionally, society must be aware of the variety of political and security threats posed by aws.
such standards may include preferential adoption of effective design methodologies for building “explainable ai” (xai) systems that can provide justifying reasons or other reliable “explanatory” data illuminating the cognitive processes leading to, and/or salient bases for, their conclusions.
to coordinate and prioritize emergency response, governments and first responders must have an accurate and complete view of disaster zones.
this uncertainty, coupled with the multiple legal jurisdictions in which a/is are being deployed (each of which, as a sovereign, can regulate a/is as it sees fit) suggests that there
its contribution to human well-being in the developed world.
in 2013, a study authored by erik brynjolfsson and andrew mcfee at the mit sloan school of management argued that advances in technology are largely behind the sluggish job growth and flattening median incomes over the last 10 to 15 years.
promoting economic growth and opportunity by giving smaller businesses access to the capabilities that ai methods offer can play an important role in addressing income stagnation and mitigating political and social tensions that can arise as income inequality increases.
increasing ability to understand and engineer our genomes: how do in-depth and personalized understanding of how our genomes function and evolve relate to the notion of well-being
promote cyber-security and ai innovation: ai evolution could be by design intertwined with cyber security.
• police and private security systems should not be permitted to deploy weapons without meaningful human control.
however, for a given community and a given a/is use context, a/is and humans may not have identical sets of norms.
to provide a rough (and admittedly imperfect) measure of the relative potential of ai, we employed usage frequency as a proxy for societal value.
[78] k. gummadi, a. weller, cross-cultural per- ceptions of fairness in algorithmic decision making: a case study of criminal risk pre- diction.
400 million people worldwide af icted by the disease if the devices could be made suf ciently affordable.12 other use cases include combining various types of alternative data sources such as geospatial data, social media data, telecommunications data, online search data, and vaccination data to help predict virus and disease transmission patterns, or using an ai solution to optimize food distribution networks in areas facing shortages and famine.
these mainly focus on effective management in the public and social sectors, or belong to the
section of ethically aligned design, algorithmic transparency is an issue of concern.
1) ais must allow individuals to fulﬁll their own moral objectives and their conception of a life worth living.
we will continue to develop and apply strong safety and security practices to avoid unintended results that create risks of harm.
the case must also be made for how social programs can increase the size of the labor pool; be structured to help employees move in and out of work more easily and more  exibly; and reduce burdens for employers.
figure 4c shows a substantial correlation (ρ = 0.49) between this mm distance and the cultural distance from the united states based on the world values survey22.
“why a right to explanation of automated decision-making does not exist in the general data protection regulation.” international data privacy law 7, no.
form of communication will vary by machine sophistication (e.g., communication capacity) and function (e.g., flexible social companion vs. task-defined medical robot).
usage frequency estimates the number of times that models trained using ai would be used in a year to predict an outcome.
but one day it might be wise enough to recognise a good essay from a mediocre one – and this raises some questions.
• determining what is personal data, u.k. information commissioner’s office.
in terms of risk—as with other solutions that draw inputs, including social media data and purchase histories, from highly personal information—data privacy and security are essential.
scale: whether the use of this technology will have signilcant impact
after a first analysis of possible impacts of the trends bringing technical experts and social scientists together, a set of exploratory future scenarios was developed to guide a more in-depth analysis of the possible future concerns related to cps.
how, then, can they preserve the interest of the consumers and the public at large while continuing to support innovation and technological development?
in education, more than 1.5 billion students could benefit from application of adaptive learning technology, which tailors content to students based on their abilities.
• companies should also be encouraged to mandate consideration of ethics at the pre-product design stage, as was done by lucid ai.
the team spent a very large part of their time not just writing code, but developing the sort of experiential knowledge we are advocating for.
source: code of conduct, data science association
meanwhile, dark money has been used for social media ads that can target incredibly specific populations in an attempt to influence public opinion or even political elections.
as ai typically work on “historical data”, it may stifle innovation and creativity by encouraging conservativism in decision making.
intelligence can, however, have an instrumental value: it is a tool that can lead us away from or towards a goal we wish to attain.
they were a narrative device whose goal was to generate good stories, by showcasing how challenging it is to create moral machines with a dozen lines of code.
many people do not own the smartphone needed for existing applications; smartphone penetration globally is below 40 percent.25 building partnerships with ngos and governments to provide basic technology access to individuals in poor communities could help address this limitation.
digital economy, the impact of ai and automation on employment, income inequality, the productivity puzzle, the economic bene ts of tackling gender inequality, a new era of global competition, chinese innovation, and digital and  nancial globalization.
the common good has been discussed widely and controversially by many authors in political philoso- phy, and it is impossible to survey this literature in the scope of this article.3 instead, i will very briefly present some issues that raise relevant questions for the interpretation of the concepts proposed in ai.
this opacity, combined with the often-decentralized manner in which it is developed, will complicate efforts to determine and allocate responsibility when something goes wrong with an ai system.
1. the transcendental model in the form of deontological ethics (immanuel kant) seems promising.
ai governance, lastly, should also be democratic and involve not only public input and declarations of values but also effective and responsive government regulation.
to ensure every stakeholder involved in the design and development of autonomous and intelligent systems is educated, trained, and empowered to prioritize ethical considerations so that these technologies are advanced for the benefit of humanity.
• provide “privacy offsets” as a business alternative to the personal data exchange — provide a pay alternative to the freemium data exchange model, to limit
three contributions dealt explicitly with demo- cratic processes (in which citizens deliberate about their visions on the common good): one presenting a case study platform to create a democratic city plan- ning system [70], one presenting a case study plat- form to help make city growth equitable by increasing transparency and accountability [71], one proposing an agent-based architecture to predict the effects of policies [72], and one presenting a mathematical vot- ing model [73].
the norms and values relevant in its use context (fleischmann and wallace, 2005).
use of personal data when designing, developing, and/or deploying a/is.
ethics and ai, since the layered meaning behind the terminology used is foundational to these discussions, and is grounded in a subsequent entrenchment of values.
the embankment project for inclusive capitalism (epic) today releases its report identifying value drivers important for sustainable and inclusive growth, as well as potential metrics to assess them.
first, dssg teams need to understand the contextual provenance of their data, which is often information that can only be shared by the data’s owners or guardians.
this is the goal of awareness tools in general (see [54] for an overview specifically with regard to privacy awareness tools) and today is found in many quantified-self apps.
in the social world are particularly complex and uncertain.
current research focuses on six themes: productivity and growth, natural resources, labor markets, the evolution of global financial markets, the economic impact of technology and innovation, and urbanization.
8. in europe, the discussion on the so called “right to explanation” when automated decision-making occurs is important to address.
or intending to change a project, product, service, program, policy, or other initiative that could have impacts on privacy.
in such a scenario, companies would use p7007 as a manual to help them understand and comply with regulations.
the original model is appropriate if we want to use it to study people’s perceptions and behavior; the modified model is appropriate if we want to use it to generate new behavior and communicate some intent to others.
this is a preliminary assessment and will be reviewed as actions under each pillar are implemented to better understand barriers and challenges.
but as these systems are instilled with increasing autonomy in making decisions and manipulating their environment, it is essential they be designed to adopt, learn, and follow the norms and values of the community they serve.
the significant work done in this area by many experts has helped raise awareness about and inform discussions about the discriminatory risks of machine learning systems.
ensuring education for patients and mandating that a disclaimer be read every time an ai solution gives a result to a patient could be helpful.
without falling into oversimplified ethical relativism, or embedding values that are antithetical to human flourishing (for example, human rights violations), it is
 digital government – data sharing and dissemination will primarily be through digital channels including the open
to ensure that intelligent technical systems will be used to help humanity to the greatest extent possible in all contexts, artifacts participating in or facilitating human society should not cause harm either by amplifying or damping human emotional experience.
smart contracts are programs that perform online transactions that participating parties agree on, but which neither can unfairly control.
at microsoft, we think of ai as a set of technologies that enable computers to perceive, learn, reason and assist in decision-making to solve problems in ways that are similar to what people do.
these are still early days for ai deployment for social use, and considerable progress will be needed before the vast potential becomes a reality.
(a good rule of thumb, also recently encoded into eu law, is that decisions with serious consequences of people should be sanity-checked by a human — and that there should be a human override mechanism available.)
but the balance can easily tip to the side of prioritizing project objectives at the expense of students’ learning opportunities as well.
when we started preparing for the symposium, my students, mostly women, were worried that they knew nothing about ai governance — a reminder that the rhetoric of advanced technology excludes many people from important political discussions.
if your organisation, company or government wishes to endorse the declaration, please contact estelle@accessnow.org, drew@accessnow.org or anna.bacciarelli@amnesty.org.
it needs to be kept in mind that in security pen- testing, everybody agrees on what the core goal is and when security is “broken”, whereas the reason why one stakeholder considers a system “broken” in ethics pen-testing may be a goal that the designer does not even agree with (which implies that there may be debates on whether the system is broken at all).
primary purpose and use: the primary purpose and likely use of a technology and application, including how closely the solution is related to or adaptable to a harmful use
before we allow our cars to make ethical decisions, we need to have a global conversation to express our preferences to the companies that will design moral algorithms, and to the policymakers that will regulate them.
a universal set of norms that applies to all autonomous systems is not realistic, but neither is it advisable to completely personalize an a/is to individual preferences.
ai can also be used for predictive maintenance of public transportation systems such as trains and public infrastructure, including bridges, to identify potentially malfunctioning components.
of people views, understands, processes, communicates, and manages data, information, and knowledge.”
rather than putting them out of work, the technology increases capacity, which may help in the developing world, where there is a shortage of specialists.
at microsoft, we aim to develop ai systems that will enable people worldwide to more effectively address local and global challenges, and to help drive progress and economic opportunity.
business developers would have to cost count individual data based on a general market profile, or offer
employees have traditionally enjoyed less  exibility and control over their hours and working conditions, but retain more stability and legal protection.
• costa, l. “a world of ambient intelligence,” chapter 1 in virtuality and capabilities
employers and workforce agencies should use real-time labor market information to identify in-demand skills, a task for which linkedin and the broader it industry are well-placed to assist governments and workforce agencies.
creating a more “user-friendly” vocabulary raises awareness on the necessity and application of classical ethics to digital societies.
the challenge of facilitating provision, validation, and recommendation of helpful, valuable, and reliable information to all.
research on a/is human-machine interaction, when it involves intervention or interaction with identifiable human participants or their data,
the future of life institute’s asilomar ai principles, the ai now 2017 report, human rights in the robot age report from the rathenau instituut, report of comest on robotics ethics from unesco, the european parliament’s recommendations to the commission on civil law rules on robotics, artificial intelligence — the consequences of artificial intelligence on the (digital) single market, production, consumption, employment and society report from the european economic and social committee (rapporteur: catelijne muller), oecd’s report, going digital: making the transformation work for growth and well- being, usacm’s statement on algorithmic transparency and accountability, guide to the ethical design and application of robots and robotic systems (british standards institute),
next, they asked a bunch of humans to identify which of those pairs represented meaningful splits (e.g., “boy is to man as girl is to woman”) and which represented social biases.
the continuing difficulty of making some ai-produced decisions transparent and explainable could also hamper its acceptance and use, especially for sensitive topics such as criminal justice.
risk profiles of social impact domains differ, with some of the biggest potential risks found in the health and hunger domain.
for instance, the gdpr permits processing on the grounds of an entity’s legitimate interests, so long as those interests do not outweigh the fundamental rights and interests of data subjects.
but on the condition that they follow the one commandment never to eat the fruit from the forbidden tree, a rule that escapes reason, that is a dictum intended to remain unexplained, a test of obedience.
the proliferation of value-based design will require a change of current system development approaches for organizations, including a commitment of research institutions to strong ethical guidelines for research, and of businesses to values that transcend narrow economic incentives.
3. strengthen the legitimacy of the proposals for responsible ai.
1. the highest priority is to respect the persons behind the data.
outcome: increased transparency and trust in goa decision making.
accident scenarios are generated by the moral machine following an exploration strategy that focuses on nine factors: sparing humans (versus pets), staying on course (versus swerving), sparing passengers (versus pedestrians), sparing more lives (versus fewer lives), sparing men (versus women), sparing the young (versus the elderly), sparing pedestrians who cross legally (versus jaywalking), sparing the fit (versus the less fit), and sparing those with higher social status (versus lower social status).
• cormode, g. “the confounding problem of private data release.” 18th international conference on database theory (2015): 1–12.
 consider promoting the trust including the foundation of an insurance system.
finally, the questions of what the boundaries of the relevant society (or: political community and its members) are, and of whether to take a welfare consequentialist or other standpoint, and whether and how to account for collective above individual interests [8], tend to receive less attention than others in “for good” initiatives, and will there- fore not be considered further here.
anandkumar and others also say that the ai community needs better representation of ethnic minorities.
broad-stroke predictions about how artificial intelligence (ai) will shape the future of humanity made by those with power arising from knowledge, money, and/or social capital.
they highlight the core values sap applies to enable business beyond bias, maintain transparency and integrity and uphold quality and safety.
another important (yet under-discussed) question for policymakers to consider is the importance of whether pedestrians are abiding by or violating the law.
but the diagram shows how the arm could have a potentially negative impact on self-worth and belonging, but a positive impact on basic needs both for individuals and society.
the use of ai is expected to generate global productivity gains of 0.8-1.4% per year by 2065 (compared to 0.3%, between 1850 and 1910, for the invention of the steam engine).
the  exibility of on-demand work reduces the barriers that traditional employment models present.36 according to a survey by the pew research center, nearly 50 percent of on-demand workers report a “need to control their own schedule.” another quarter said there was a “lack of other jobs where they live.”37
there is now widespread acknowledgement that measuring subjective well-being is an essential part of measuring quality of life alongside other social and economic dimensions.” data is
and this goes to the second problem, which is the real heart of the matter: ml systems are very smart in their domain, but know nothing at all about the broader world, unless they were taught it.
i believe this should be reports from inspiring dis- cussions in and around master’s topics that illustrate selected ethical ques ons around data science and the ac vi es of data scien sts, and that highlight why and how the task of re ec ng on broad- er ethical considera ons di ers from those around data governance, research integrity, academic ethics, and compli- ance.
the above trust and accountability considerations point to a useful distinction between trusting a system and the trustworthiness of a system.18 trusting a system appropriately means having a justified level of trust in a system, that is, having just the right amount of trust in it.
ieee p7006tm - standard for personal data artificial intelligence (ai) agent
but i’ll give you six examples which i’ve found have helped me think about a lot of other problems, in turn — not in that they gave me the right answers, but in that they helped me ask the right questions.
here we can look to other technical domains, such as biomedical, civil, and aerospace engineering, where commercial protections for proprietary technology are routinely and effectively balanced with the need for appropriate oversight standards and mechanisms to safeguard the public.
to consider the ongoing creep of a/is ethical issues into the legal realm, one need look no further than the first section of this document: legal status.
or otherwise, resulting from these applications, effective a/is public policies and government regulations are needed.
without taking action to prevent it, it is highly conceivable that a/is will be used to deceive humans by pretending to be another human being in a plethora of situations or via multiple mediums.
particular attention, however, should be paid to ensure that the use of a/is for the common good — especially in the context of lmics — does not reinforce existing socio-economic inequities.
the courses would help those with a basic understanding of computer science acquire the skills needed to pull the data together and be on the frontline of ai implementation (see box 3, “ten steps to ai deployment for social good, and some barriers to overcome: a checklist”).
in this paper, we highlight some of the issues of the impact of artificial intelligence (ai) on the future of work.
discussions on the coordinated plan on ai with the member states focus on a number of key topics, including investment in research and innovation, the availability of quality data for a broad range of users, the fostering of technology transfer, reaching out to start-ups and smes, attracting and retaining talent, and skilling and upskilling the workforce.
and yet, we do not have the luxury of giving up on creating moral machines5,6,7,8.
• training responsible human operators of autonomous systems who are clearly identifiable
what will be the impact on human cognition generally?
recent theo- retical developments in the diversity and work group literature have emphasized the benefits of uniqueness at the group level (e.g., faultlines and the integration-and-learning perspec- tive), which may or may not be relevant to the experience of individuals within diverse work groups.
it’s common, these days, to hear that the internet, and particularly social media, is making us lonelier and more isolated than ever.
• acceptance body: have validation and test plans for behavior of actual system produced; test weapons systems in a number of representative scenarios; have plans to ensure upgrades are reviewed against ihl criteria such as article 36.
our view that the treatment of individual uniqueness and belonging in studies of work group diversity needs to be refined is reflected in several recent research streams, including social identity complexity, intersectionality, and faultlines.
kerr is one of the world’s leading experts around ai, law, ethics and governance, but the government has yet to act on his call for action.
as a reference of “types of positive nudge strategies” to enable a clear and precise communication among members from different communities that include robotics, intelligent and autonomous systems, ethics and correlated areas of expertise.
instead of perpetuating the cult of the heroic social entrepreneur, developing country partners need to be at the center of true systems entrepreneurship that includes—and goes beyond—technology.
provincial lawyers may have inserted “escape clauses” in contracts ontario’s basic income participants signed, but they can’t override basic ethics, she said.
 form a g7 working group to meet regularly and share best practices for different topics, including accountability frameworks and ethical ai use in government.
mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 11
these various potential legal models and assess whether they could serve as a proper basis for assigning and apportioning legal rights and responsibilities with respect to the deployment and use of a/is.
for example, global companies have to deal with multiple legal and regulatory frameworks; policies that may work in one country may not work in another.
the declaration names privacy as one of its key tenets and states that people should be able to access their personal information and data used by algorithms.
as business leaders, we urge you to reverse this decision to cancel the basic income pilot program.ai for the common good?
this has been argued for a wide range of big-data applications [63] and shown with simulations for example for drug patrols [39]: a predictive-policing application learns from past data that arrests have occurred frequently in certain areas, and it proposes that police patrol these areas prefer- entially.
humans deal with this by having an extremely general intelligence in their brains, which can handle all sorts of concepts.
engineering work should conform to individual and professional organization codes of ethics and conduct.
it threatens the basic rules of markets and civic life.
4. regulate a/is to ensure public safety and responsibility
like any disruptive technology, however, ai carries risks and presents complex societal challenges in several areas such as labour, safety, privacy, ethics, skills and so on.
in addition to learning computer science fundamentals, students will also learn how professions such as designers, social scientists, or philosophers contribute to the ethical design of ai systems."
the eu initiative on ai is taking a comprehensive approach, which is above all human-centric, having at the very heart of its endeavours the interests of people and their security and prosperity.
in this context people are not seen as citizens, but rather as subjects of a grand experiment — “users” of a neighbourhood rather than members of a community or participants in a democratic society.
how do we strike the right balance between the values of novelty and accountability?
56 notes from the ai frontier: insights from hundreds of use cases, mckinsey global institute, april 2018; notes from the ai frontier: modeling the impact of ai on the world economy, mckinsey global institute, september 2018.
microsoft is working with the partnership on ai and other organizations to develop best practices for enabling meaningful transparency of ai systems.
be a clear legal requirement of (1) due diligence, and (2) sufficient investment
cifar, in partnership with uk research and innovationand france’s centre national de la recherche scientifique, has launched a call for workshops targeted at priority areas related to ai & society.
in general, diversity research on individuals within work groups has relied on long-standing theoretical perspectives, such as social identity theory and self-categorization.
these labor market trends have tremendous implications for both worker protections and employer-provided bene ts.
this definition is based on the organization for economic co-operation and development’s (oecd) guidelines on measuring subjective well-being that notes, “being able to measure people’s quality of life is fundamental when assessing the progress of societies.
• build an ai advisory commission, composed of elder advocacy and mental health self- advocacy groups, to help developers produce a level of tools and comprehension metrics to manifest meaningful and pragmatic consent applications.
it entails moving to a state of absolute clarity and awareness of the coming onslaught of change, and then taking a personal leadership role in making incremental, but permanent, changes to your life now.
this standard hopes to educate government and industry on why it is best to put mechanisms into place to enable the design of systems that will mitigate the ethical concerns when ai systems can organize and share personal information on their own.
similarly, the group would work to predict near-term and longer-term job needs and growth areas.
indeed, intelligent machines can restrict the choices of individuals and groups, lower living standards, disrupt work organization and the job market, inﬂuence politics, clash with fundamental rights, exacerbate social and economic inequalities, and affect ecosystems, climate and the environment.
this worries guy verhofstadt of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe group (alde) in the european parliament, who urges his fellow europeans to start setting standards for ai now, before governments with fewer concerns about privacy and safety do so first.
one example that illustrate the need for a large infrastructure is the domain of transportation, where the introduction of autonomous driving would require something closed to air traffic control rather than scattered human- type intelligence on each vehicle.
further, by incorpo- rating such organizational attributes as interdependent work arrangements, collaborative conflict resolution processes, and power sharing, all of which
an individual who does not make a reasonable effort to protect their data could lose that protection.
sentiment analysis (text)  using automated review of public sentiment about specific topics to inform policy
ciding to patrol where there have been many drug- related arrests in the past, rather than where there has been much drug usage, and it will commit coun- termeasures against such biased decisions to one for- malization of “fairness”, which may mean that other notions of fairness are violated [40, 41].
the ai models underlying such software need well-defined and accessible data and well-defined objective functions whose maximization constitutes a “solution”.
“i think it’s a fairly accurate picture of who big companies working on ai think are appropriate people to hire,” thomas says.
• regulate to ensure public safety and responsibility
harnessing opportunities requires significant and simultaneous investments in people, process and technology layers of the government.
“the case for an ethical black box.” lecture notes in artificial intelligence 10454, (2017): 262–273.
these challenges can only be overcome if re- searchers and practitioners take the ethical quality of their products as seriously as the formal and engi- neering qualities, and if they regard this as a profes- sional rather than personal virtue.
[15] north highland consulting, ai for the com- mon good.
and yet, as useful as these ideas are, they do not address a fundamental question of the digital age: why do we still need jobs?
as new ways to know the world are developed, appropriate rules governing those approaches are helpful.
9. trained ai model proved value on the ground: ;;
emerging technologies, born from this creativity, have the potential to create new jobs, fuel the economy, and improve quality of life.
remember when streaming netflix from your phone could have cost more than your rent because of how expensive data was?
in their self-assessments, agencies should identify potential impacts on the public and then proactively engage a ected communities to ensure that a system meets a given community’s goals.
or cap third party vendor access to personal data or limit transactional data to internal business use only.
some general principles are available, such as the common good principle (andre and velasquez, 1992).
they allow us to share all kinds of information, from the most mundane to the most intimate, with huge numbers of people, in real time.
governance is centralized and expands to manage analytical model accuracy and data provenance becomes important.
researchers have long identified some key problems with notice and consent in the digital world.
the principles of the current declaration are the points on a moral compass that help guide the development of artiﬁcial intelligence towards morally and socially desirable ends.
33 new york city automated decision systems task force: https://w w w1.nyc.gov/site/adstaskforce/index.page
● q3: what can government, academia, and industry do to promote an inclusive use of ai technology that will benefit a diverse society?
some of these use cases consist of tasks individual humans could potentially accomplish, but where the required number of instances is so large that it exceeds human capacity, such as finding flooded and unusable roads across a large area after a hurricane.
14)shared benefit: ai technologies should benefit and empower as many people as possible.
disclaimer: while we have provided recommendations in this document, it should be understood these do not represent a position or the views of ieee but the informed opinions of committee members providing insights designed to provide expert directional guidance regarding a/is.
first european tech company to create ai ethics advisory panel
systems that do not have cultural knowledge incorporated into their knowledge base may change the way people interact, which may impact not only individuals, but also an entire society.
in this article, the very general term “ai” will be used to denote research and projects that involve the processing and analysis of knowledge and data, often with machine learning / data mining methods.
it also complicates individual jurisdictional responses, since an ai might or might not be built to respect the local laws and appropriate cultural norms.
in addition, such an environment would offer the opportunity to learn from the ways that others experience the world due to different cognitive architectures.
privacy needs to be both a business imperative and a key pillar of trust in all cloud computing initiatives.
surveys of parents show that they overwhelmingly want their children to have the opportunity to learn to code.
this collaboration could lead to a more humane, organizational, and computational sustainability for individuals, all of society, and the planet.
of these threats, it is unclear whether benefits extend beyond those from high socio-economic class to the majority of people, particularly the middle class and working poor, as well as those suffering from abject poverty, fleeing disaster zones or otherwise lacking the resources to
all human beings – women and men, and those who don’t define themselves in either way – have equal opportunities.
to restore individual rights, and produce more of a sense of citizenship, we might consider the idea of a “data trust”: a mutual organisation formed to manage data on its members’ behalf.
we are motivated by a desire to create ethical principles for a/is that:
uniform metrics measuring emotion, depression, or other factors (including life satisfaction, affect, and purpose), the device might score very high on a well-being scale comparable to the net promoter score widely used today.
7. build extensive knowledge layers and automated reasoning into systems to expand their contextual awareness and common sense so undesirable side effects can
the issue of the legal status of a/is thus intertwines with broader legal questions regarding how to ensure accountability and assign and allocate liability when a/is cause harm.
a community and participate” also motho ke motho ka batho “a person is a person because of other people.”
as computers behave more like humans, the social sciences and humanities will become even more important.
• well-being metrics to guide the development and implementation of a/is should increase human well-being, defined subjectively in terms of cognitive, affective, and eudaimonic domains, and objectively in terms of conditions enabling well-being.
 use data to drive policy and decision making – data is the foundation of good decisions
history shows that the largest drivers of change in human welfare, for better and for worse, have been developments in science, technology, and economics.
secondly, large numbers of workers will be using ai-based systems without necessarily knowing that ai is involved: the issue here is that of training them to use such tools correctly.
public and social sector
health care, environment, intelligent transportation systems, security, industry, public administration, marketing are just a few examples.
the ai for global good summit dedicated a third track, with 6 contributions, on ai and satellite imagery and linked this method- centric topic specification for contributions to three further sdgs (no poverty, life on land, and zero hunger), leading to a strong representation of these topics.
according to a recent study by the pew research center, 87 percent of u.s. adults in the labor force say that to keep up with changes in the workplace, it will be essential or important to get training and develop new skills throughout their working lives.42 the ability to learn new things, collaborate, communicate and adapt to changing environments may become the most important skills for long-term employability.
we believe the same approach is applicable to the regulation of algorithms used by government.
is free and open to anyone wishing to join and addresses issues relating to how an individual could have the ubiquitous and always-on services of a personalized ai agent to ensure their identity is protected and has symmetry with the a/is their data comes into contact with at all times.
either real or virtual reality), there are multiple benefits of human interaction, both physical and emotional, that could be affected adversely if too much time is spent within realities of one’s own creation.
that encompasses school age through university, one based on a classical ethics foundation that focuses on providing choice and accountability toward digital being as a priority in information and knowledge societies.
i am a great enthusiast and early adopter of technology, but sometimes i wonder whether the inexorable integration of technology in our lives could diminish some of our quintessential human capacities, such as compassion and cooperation.
second, it is by now well-known that “objective” big data analyses are likely to reproduce the biases in the data they learn from (thus violating the right to non-discrimination) [62].
the risk of conceiving of social problems in terms of engineering problems is to blind oneself to the vagaries of the formalization step, and to fail to consider alternatives to the chosen formalization.
every person involved in ai development must exercise caution by anticipating, as far as possible, the adverse consequences of ais use and by taking the appropriate measures to avoid them.
the black-box problems of ai—such as the unintended consequences of ai-generated decisions, the lack of explanation for ai decisions, and the use of ai to manipulate information and create falsehoods—were of top concern to canadian companies already using ai (see figure 6).
in figure 1, we present a 2 × 2 framework of inclusion in which we propose that unique- ness and belongingness work together to create feelings of inclusion.
given the immaterial nature of these tasks they are performing and by analogy with human intelligence, we designate these wide-ranging systems under the general name of artiﬁcial intelligence.
the task execution, but also possible deleterious effects on the human, both physical and psychological.
data needed for social impact uses may not be easily accessible for ngos and others in the social sector
it does however become necessary for those who do not work within the parameters of accepted values monopolies to find alternative methods of accommodating different value systems.
see kyarash shahriari and mana shahriari, ieee standard review—ethically aligned design: a vision for prioritizing human well-being with artificial intelligence and autonomous systems, ieee canada international humanitarian technology conference, toronto, canada, july 21–22, 2017.
 convene relevant local stakeholders to develop responsible and inclusive solutions to ai-related challenges in sub-national jurisdictions.
the eda program leadership is responsible for enabling the execution and implementation of the enterprise data analytics strategy by providing direction, focus, timely decision making and fostering collaboration.
 q5: how can we ensure a representative and diverse plurality of voices and perspectives in the development of international and national accountability regimes for ai?
ai for the common good?!
we believe that inclusive work groups and their antecedent conditions would create greater equality and opportunities in the workplace for diverse people by affirming the unique contributions they offer and encouraging full participation in work group activities.
itu has initiated an ai for good conference that ties ai outcomes to the un sustainable development goals.
populations in less developed countries are hardest hit: in countries with a medium or low human development index, up to six times as many people
3 andrew zolli, planet, paul g allen philanthropies, & leading scientists team up to map & monitor world’s corals in unprecedented detail, planet, june 4, 2018, planet.com/pulse/planet-paul-g-allen-coral-map/.
this will help keep  rms accountable for their actions, align incentives and compensate people for harm.
the need for substantive elements can arise from what popper called the tolerance para- dox (if a society is tolerant without limit, this toler- ance can be abused or even destroyed by the intol- erant).
they may require cross-functional teams, including domain experts, engineers, product managers, user experience researchers, legal professionals, and others, to test, assess, and flag possible unintended consequences.
alternatively, many entities have asked, should some a/is be treated as mere products and tools of their human developers and users?
that will swiftly change in the first instances of an autonomous weapon killing a civilian in battle, or in a corporate deployment of ai technologies directly negatively affecting consumers.
57 lawyers’ committee for civil rights under law, 2015, “historic agreement resolves environmental justice complaint in corpus christi, texas,” https://lawyerscommittee.org/press-release/historic-agreement-resolves- environmental-justice-complaint-in-corpus-christi-texas/.
the power and peril of data analytics is that data collected today will be useful for unpredictable purposes in the future.
• reform tax policy and social safety net.
some in the technology world claim that the experiment was ill-conceived and poorly executed, but it illustrates an underlying ambiguity: to what extent is it possible to enable ai to comprehend the context that informs its instructions?
engagement across government, developing technical solutions to social and ethical
any business or organization that depends upon data and information — which today is almost every business and organization — can bene t from ai.
they call the gap between increasing productivity and employment ’the great decoupling,’ and the authors believe technology is behind it.
this artificial “fulfillment” of basic social needs through fully immersive technologies might have unpredicted implications on the very fabric of society, especially by changing the way humans interact with each other.
for our purposes, money is a rhetoric amplifier, be that from a naive fetishism of meritocracy, where we mistakenly align wealth with the ability to figure things out better than the rest of us,[3] or cynical acceptance of the fact that rich people work in private organizations or public institutions with a scope that impacts a lot of people.
ai interaction with human beings should be minimized in order to protect human beings autonomy.
maintaining public confidence in the institution of the judiciary is a paramount concern for any liberal democratic society.
prioritizing ethical and responsible artificial intelligence has become a widespread goal for society.
problems in this domain are both in the public interest and technically very complex.
however, we acknowledge that these democratic initiatives may be challenging to implement due to the rapid pace of innovation (as opposed to slowly evolving regulations) and limited public knowledge on how algorithms are conceived, respectively.
for instance, a robot nanny could inform parents about the time it spent with their kids and activities performed, warning about unhealthy situations where the child lacks human contact, which can compromise their cognitive development.
46 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
an aia framework could fund an independent, government-wide oversight body, like an inspector general’s o ce, to support the research, access, and community engagement.68 community institutional review boards could be supported to help steer and review research proposals.69 funding could be set aside for the compensation of external auditors.
so the triumvirate of skills and knowledge that have come to represent data science for so many practitioners – programming, statistics, and domain knowledge – falls far short of what is needed in data science for social good.
researchers and programmers will have to ask themselves what safety and mobility trade-offs are inherent in autonomous vehicles.
in this  rst issue we introduce the project, the consor um and report about our kick o  event held the last march 2018.
• work with influencers and decision-makers in the computational sustainability field to cross-pollinate efforts of computational sustainability in the a/is field and the well-being communities to expedite efforts to identify, align, and advance robust and uniform indicators into current models that prioritize and increase human well-being.
to implant true morality and emotions, and thus accountability (i.e., autonomy) into a/is is both dangerous and misleading in that it encourages anthropomorphistic expectations of machines
and this seems certain to continue as ai evolves and the world focuses on the role it will play in society.
such a repository is envisioned as benefiting society by making possible analyses to support the planning of more efficient regional transportation systems, as well as services to provide consumers with seamless access to multimodal transportation options.
this focus is consistent with many diversity studies that have established the importance of group referents for the experience of diverse people in work organizations (cf.
the goal is to provide students a means to use ethics in a manner analogous to how they are being taught to use engineering principles and tools.
it is our responsibility to amplify the good effects and mitigate the bad -- to continue increasing diversity while strengthening our common understanding so our community can create the greatest positive impact on the world.
some categories of data (such as criminal records) must be preserved as long as legal protocol requires.
most of these use cases rely on single modes of data input.
this, in turn, will help pave the way toward a common framework of principles to guide researchers and developers as they deliver a new generation of ai-enabled systems and capabilities, and governments as they consider a new generation of rules and regulations to protect the safety and privacy of citizens and ensure that the bene ts of ai are broadly accessible.
moreover, the phrases “human in the loop” and “human on the loop” also lack clarity and only contribute further confusion.
data lies at the foundation of this framework and each element is focused on enhancing the value of the data through strong guidance (governance).
“it’s evidence of the fun people have on facebook, and that’s it.”
legal rules they follow, but rather move according to what they are programmed to do, following rules that are designed by humans to be moral.
the ieee global initiative brings together several hundred participants from six continents, who are thought leaders from academia, industry, civil society, policy and government in the related technical and humanistic disciplines to identify and find consensus on timely issues.
for consumers to switch from traditional human-driven cars to autonomous vehicles, and for the wider public to accept the proliferation of artificial intelligence-driven vehicles on their roads, both groups will need to understand the origins of the ethical principles that are programmed into these vehicles10.
the solution envisaged here starts with a plan to make each individual's data their protected private property.
algorithms need to be protected (and encrypted) according to the level of (cyber) security determined by the criticality of the application.
successful delivery of work streams and projects within enterprise data analytics require a strong governance model with defined roles and responsibilities that is capable of making effective decisions and resolving complex business issues that cross organizational boundaries.
we believe these techniques will reduce the risk of privacy intrusions by ai systems so they can use personal data without accessing or knowing
since modern societies are largely constituted of a/is users, we believe these considerations to be relevant for a/is developers.
ai can be a great opportunity to move from “training”, which is typical of manual tasks, to “education”, which is typical of human cognitive skills.
that is, of course, what the rule of law often intends to answer — how we should behave as a society when faced with difficult ethical decisions — and it should come as no surprise that the legal implications of a/is continue to unfold as we witness the forms of its expression and use expand.
along with an increased awareness of how incorporating sustainability measures beyond compliance can benefit the positive association with an organization’s brand in the public sphere, by prioritizing the increase of holistic well-being, companies are also recognizing where they can save or make money and increase innovation
in our society, we have personal relationships with friends and family, and then we have institutional relationships with the governments that set the rules.
issues of data protection and privacy via big
like other emerging technologies, it may force society to rethink notions of privacy in public.
• scherer, m. “is legal personhood for ai already possible under current united states laws?” law and ai, may 14, 2017.
over time, our community should be able to help during wars and ongoing issues that are not limited to a single event.
the maturity model is meant to enable program areas within the government to self-evaluate their analytics capabilities, as well as their enterprise readiness.
he points out that the current fuel for the rise of ai is our personal information.
on may 25, 2018, the european union’s law on general data protection regulation (gdpr) comes into effect and its impacts will be global.
sponsored linksai for the common good?
if business and ai work together it will enable people to focus on what they are good at - building relationships and caring for customers.
some of these use cases consist of tasks individual humans could potentially accomplish, but where the required number of instances is so large that it exceeds human capacity, such as  nding  ooded and unusable roads across a large area after a hurricane.
otherwise people may not fully trust ai systems.
similarly, pittinsky and simon (2007) assert in their two-dimensional model of intergroup attitudes that group members may view an out-group positively and also that bases for positive attitudes toward an out-group and negative attitudes toward the same out-group are different and serve distinct functions.
while robots capable of participating in an intimate relationship are not currently available, the idea that they could become intimate sexual partners with humans (e.g., sex robots) is one that captures the attention of the public and
7. principles of human dignity and individual autonomy
justin aglio, director of academic achievement and innovation, is working with mit on an open source middle school ai ethics curriculum that will develop students’ ethical thinking abilities in the domain of artificial intelligence.
the first step is to identify the norms of the specific community in which the systems are to be deployed and, in particular, norms relevant to the kinds of tasks that they
the design of any ai systems starts with the choice of training data, which is the  rst place where unfairness can arise.
how can classical ethics act as a regulating force in autonomous technologies as goal-directed behavior transitions from being externally set by operators to being indigenously set?
in the near future, users will filter their digital landscapes by opting in or opting out of mixed- reality information-delivery mechanisms driven by a/is frameworks that will both structure and, in many cases, alter or curate the data for private, opaque ends.
risks associated with ai are becoming an increasingly important area of research, especially (but not exclusively) in the  eld of ethics applied to ai.
• the implications of a/is on human well- being are important issues to research and understand.
all ai topics that can address computational sustainability issues are appropriate, including machine learning, optimization, vision, and robotics,
on the other hand, ai applications based on deep learning models can be deployed on the edge8 on cheap devices or embedded processors as long as they do not need to be trained on the fly to function.
companies that are best equipped to help agencies and researchers study their systems would have a competitive advantage over others.
service providers should ensure that personal data management tools are easy to find and use within their service interface.
this will require a more thorough discussion and direction on elements of data governance and how best to action the goa wide approach to data management.
• organization for economic co-operation • and development, oecd’s better life index.
and designers into sustained and constructive contact with ethicists, legal scholars, and social scientists, both in academia and industry.
some ai capabilities could be used for societal benefit.
to review, and how review organizations can consider both traditional health and safety issues, as well as ethical considerations.
• scherer, m., “regulating artificial intelligence systems: risks, challenges, competencies, and strategies.” harvard journal of law and technology 29, no.
the a/is using quantitative indicators for health or happiness should therefore develop and implement measures for maintaining full human autonomy of their users.
this two-fold effect is not specific to ai, however, arising more generally from automation and digitalization, leading to workers taking on the role of “supervisors”, which of course assumes their proficiency in the required digital skills.
the secular formulation of the supreme happiness mentioned above is that of the reduction of the experience of suffering, or reduction of the metacognitive state of suffering as a result of lifelong discipline and meditation aimed at achieving proper relationships with others and with the world.
behaviors regarding our personas considered normal in real-life are not directly applicable in the augmented, virtual and mixed reality worlds most individuals will soon be inhabiting on a regular basis in the near future.
in education, the ability to analyze how people acquire knowledge and then use that information to develop predictive models for engagement and comprehension points the way toward new approaches to education that combine online and teacher-led instruction and may revolutionize how people learn.
a vision for prioritizing human wellbeing with artificial intelligence and autonomous systems.
the development, design, and distribution of a/is should fully comply with all applicable international and domestic law.
for example, structur- ing a decision-making process and tool by first iden- tifying potential harms at a general level and then weighing them against specific and contextual poten- tial benefits “would always, it seemed, come out in favour of intervening and therefore in favor of the data sharing that would enable intervention” [50, pp.
cross-sector collaboration in data science for social good:
despite a widespread crisis of confidence, enterprise preparation for ai has centered almost exclusively on data prep and data science talent.
the initial wave of the survey was made possible through grants from john templeton foundation and by the institute for the study of religion, economics and society at chapman university.
to do this, however, we must develop a comprehensive and globally shared view of how technology is affecting our lives and reshaping our economic, social, cultural, and human environments.
turning these challenges and pit- falls into a positive recommendation, as a conclusion i will draw on another characteristic of computer- science thinking and practice to make these imped- iments visible and attenuate them: “attacks” as a method for improving design.
box 2. a growing body of research on the ethics of ai (continued)
it should also offer an agile approach to ethics and risk management that aligns with agile software development practices.
artificial intelligence, automation, and the economy.
in a recent paper titled four ethical priorities for neurotechnologies and ai, the morningside group strongly defends privacy and articulates it as the need to keep data private by default, particularly when it is of neural origin (2).
works at least well enough to ensure that the system will avoid the above failure modes (even in the face of rapid capability gain and/or a dramatic change in context, such as when moving from a small testing environment to a large world).
facebook can, and occasionally does, help us find people with whom we build relationships in real life, and perhaps someday it will improve.
laws should create whistleblower protection for those who can and wish to reveal explicit violation of discrimination law.
but what all these factors do tell us is that biology was never a relevant factor for women’s innate interests in the field.the moral machine experiment
“we need to start having a serious conversation about what it means for information to be public and what kinds of information that goes online in the course of living our daily lives should be up for grabs for other people to use and process, not just see,” she said.
if you guessed “the first three have carpet in them,” you’re right!
how can ai interact with government authorities to facilitate law enforcement and intelligence collection while respecting rule of law and transparency for users?
many existing social safety net programs are already underfunded and face further  scal pressures as workforces age.
in general, since the deployment of big- data analyses will itself create data that then become input to further data analyses, this can easily create vicious-cycle phenomena that have been observed by sociologists for long, dynamics that can perpetuate or even aggravate bias and discrimination [64].
these fundamental knowledges are more likely to prepare our workers for an economy in a deep transformation, to give them the necessary skills to adapt to this transformation, to create skills that will be hard to automate in the foreseeable future and that are likely to create the most value-added.
to conclude, we believe that the declaration should include improved safeguards for privacy of user data.
topics such as human-robot interaction and how ai-driven systems that fail should hand control over to people are important areas not only for ongoing research, but also for enhanced collaboration and communication within the industry.
is it acceptable to entrust a vulnerable person to the care of ai (for example, a "robot nanny”)?
accordingly, we need to gauge social expectations about how autonomous vehicles should solve moral dilemmas.
sure, it’s nice to have a mittelstand that makes the world’s best ventilators, ball bearings, and screws.
if it happens that a safe automatic truck becomes available, authorized by public authorities, accepted by road users and economically viable, major professional conversion problems may arise relatively quickly.
“but, for the ancient and medieval philosopher, this was a strange way to view the world; rather, they would say that we work in order to have leisure.”
why are these standards relevant to business people now?)
by embracing “agile” governance, just as the private sector has increasingly adopted agile responses to software development and business operations more generally.
of the ramifications of offering alternative social interactions that do not require a human counterpart, or severely limit key social cues.
security teams increasingly rely on machine learning and artificial intelligence to protect assets.
with a number of universities replicating the university of chicago’s dssg summer program, the federal government supporting networks such as metrolab and big data innovation hubs, and players convening events such the bloomberg data for good exchange, do good data, and the university of chicago dssg conference for which this paper was written, it is clear that there is growing momentum behind efforts to use data science in the service of society.
those from countries with less economic equality between the rich and poor also treat the rich and poor less equally in the moral machine.
for example, when one dssg team was looking for a way to identify family units in data from social service agencies, they applied a hierarchical clustering technique that one of the astrophysicists on their team routinely used for
this is a key architectural design challenge that a/is designers must achieve if ai is going to be of service to society.
), group privacy: the challenges of new data technologies.
he tells readers how facebook’s social infrastructure will promote health and safety, and again it involves getting people to do more things online.
“an ethological and emotional basis for human-robot interaction,” robotics and autonomous systems 42, no.
more broadly, rich “graphs” of information are foundational to enabling computers to develop an understanding of relevant relationships and interactions between people, entities and events.
for a/is technologists and well-being experts to work in unison to create assessment tools using best in class data, indicators, and practices in their potential analysis and use.
principles, policies and laws for the 51 responsible use of ai
both tools simplify the content of these policies and may provide users with clarity into how services are collecting, making use of, and potentially sharing personal and other information.
the internet’s architecture by the internet engineering task force (ietf) and human rights.” science and engineering ethics 23, no.
i believe in growth mindsets like ray dalio proposes in his principles: there is real, transformative power in shifting how our minds interpret the discomfort that accompanies learning or stretching oneself to do something not yet mastered.
marcie frost, calpers chief executive officer: “as a long-term investor in a dynamic world, calpers is excited about building on the embankment project for inclusive capitalism (epic’s) work to strengthen our understanding of risks and opportunities in our portfolio.
whether or not someone is an employee determines whether they are protected by traditional labor, wage and hour, and equal opportunity laws, and whether they can access employer-provided bene ts such as private pensions, access to training, retirement bene ts and, in many countries, healthcare.
we don’t have a complete understanding of what a human requires to be happy and healthy.
the example itself is, intentionally, not a real example in the sense of being the contents of a specific ai paper, report or otherwise – because the point of the present article is not to denigrate the merits of any particular project.
along with identifying the norms within a specific community and task domain, we need to identify the ways in which people prioritize competing norms and resolve norm conflicts, and the ways in which people expect a/is to resolve similar norm conflicts.
the ai solution; the level of explainability that is required to reduce or mitigate risks; and considerations of the risk of negative impact to the workforce and workers.
until somewhat recently, “moral concerns” about artificial intelligence would have been seen as absurd, something relegated science fiction.
and no matter how advanced artificial intelligence becomes, some jobs are always likely to be better done by humans, notably those involving empathy or social interaction.
(2009) demon- strated that perceptions of inclusion and exclusion were significant in predicting social workers’ job satisfaction.
participants from six continents, who are thought leaders from academia, industry, civil society, policy and government in the related technical and humanistic disciplines to identify and find consensus on timely issues.
to tackle some of the world’s most challenging social problems.
these principles subsequently informed the rulemaking process initiated by the department of health and human services that resulted in the federal regulations known as the common rule.
in artificial intelligence, funding a revolution: government support for computing research.” washington, dc: national academy press, 1999.
long-term interaction with affective artifacts lacking cultural sensitivity could alter the way people interact in society.
similarly, a photo depicting any child nudity would have always been taken down -- and for good reason -- but we've now adapted our standards to allow historically important content like the terror of war photo.
all the less complex based on predefined rules such as organizing, planning, control and information management activities are prone to be automatized as well.
how can ai contribute to greater autonomy for human beings?
within computer vision, the speci c capabilities of image classi cation and object detection stand out for their potential applications for social good.
if there is going to be a steam engine that disrupts the status quo – and ai is shaping up that way – then canada should develop and build the very best steam engine it can, right here at home.
an a/is may be equipped with a norm baseline before it is deployed in its target community (issue 1), but this will not suffice for it to behave appropriately over an extended time.
corporate chatbot and customer-service ais will need to be built and trained and have dialogue written for them (ai firms are said to be busy hiring poets); they will have to be constantly updated and maintained, just as websites are today.
this is why we need to think beyond the technology itself to address the need for strong ethical principles, the evolution of laws, the importance of training for new skills, and even labor market reforms.
trained on the full corpus of an area’s court history, it can form a surprisingly good picture of who is and isn’t a risk.
it’s dif cult to predict detailed employment trends with certainty because the impact of new technology on jobs is often indirect and subject to a wide range of interconnected innovations and events.
[8] c. blum, determining the common good: a (re-)constructive critique of the proceduralist paradigm.
the aether committee considers and de nes best practices, provides guiding principles to be used in the development and deployment of microsoft’s ai products and solutions, and helps resolve questions related to ethical and societal implications stemming from microsoft’s ai research, product and customer engagement efforts.
the workshops of the thirty-first aaai conference on artificial intelligence: technical reports, ws-17-02: ai, ethics, and society, 81–88.
as part of such processes, “[i]t is understood that there will be clashes of values and norms when iden- tifying, implementing, and evaluating these systems (a state often referred to as ‘moral overload’)” [5, p. 23], so conflict resolution methods and processes are required.
3. utilization of “customers” to perform basic corporate business processes such as data entry as a barter for lower prices, resulting also in reduced tax revenues.
this is where ai enters: recommender systems (the backbone of modern social media plat- forms’ approach to addressing information overload) work on associations learned from past data and thereby tend to further strengthen these effects, e.g.
previous research has found that employees with little job security suffer from poorer mental health and that unemployment and job insecurity are often linked to heart disease and mortality rates.
while standards exist, or are in production relating to augmented and virtual reality, human rights law, privacy and data, it is still largely not understood how human agency, emotion, and the legal issues regarding identity will be affected on a large scale by society once a/is technologies become ubiquitous.
people will have some unique expectations for humans than they do for machines (e.g., norms governing the regulation of negative emotions, assuming that machines do not have such emotions), and people will have some unique expectations of a/is that they do not have for humans (e.g., that the machine will sacrifice itself, if it can, to prevent harm to
reprinted from palaces for the people: how social infrastructure can help fight inequality, polarization, and the decline of civic life by eric klinenberg.
alex gorsky, johnson and johnson chairman and ceo: “as a global leader in healthcare committed to ensuring good health is within reach of everyone, everywhere, johnson & johnson is focused on creating long-term value for all of our stakeholders.
and this is not trivial, for the profession has symbolized in the collective imagination the manifestation of the american dream of empowerment, liberty, and social ascension whereby less-educated people could make it into the middle class.
and even service delivery of goods (ingold and soper, 2016) can negatively impact human rights by automating certain forms of discrimination, inhibiting the right to assembly, freedom of expression, and access to information.
even without a fancy data warehouse or the budget to conduct a major infrastructure overhaul, small companies can still leverage smart technologies and applications that use artificial intelligence.
of whether universalism or some form of ethical relativism is true, affective systems need to respect the values of the cultures within which
while there is evidence that robots and automation are taking jobs away in various sectors, a more balanced, granular, analytical, and objective treatment of this subject will more effectively help inform policy making.
mark schneider, nestlé chief executive officer: “at nestlé we believe in creating shared value for our shareholders and for society.the embankment project for inclusive capitalism (epic) project has shown that this approach to doing business is getting increasing support in industry, finance and academia.”
to avoid potential negative unintended consequences, a/is manufacturers, and society in general, should prioritize the analysis and implementation of practices and policy that secures or increases human well-being, including:
this conceptual model is adapted from best practices across industry and leading vendor organizations, and provides a view of the components/capabilities required of the ecosystem.
• “the ai that pretends to be human,” lesswrong blog post, february 2, 2016.
• “engineers canada code of ethics,” 2017.
the field of knowledge discovery from databases and the related fields of data mining and data science focus on knowledge in the sense of “novel, valid, poten- tially useful, and ultimately understandable patterns in data” [23] – where the intended recipient, who can use and understand these patterns as structured rep- resentations, is often but not necessarily human.
goffman’s (1963) classic work on stigma suggests that people may choose not to disclose information that highlights a stigmatized characteristic they possess in efforts to be accepted by others.
building on prior conceptualizations of inclusion as centrality or one’s position within exchange networks (o’hara, beehr, & colarelli, 1994; schein, 1971), pelled and her colleagues (1999) defined inclusion as “the degree to which an employee is accepted and treated as an insider by others in a work system” (p. 1014) and examined the relationships between demo- graphic dissimilarity and three indicators of inclusion—the degree of influ- ence that employees have over decisions that affect them at work, the degree to which employees are kept well-informed about the company’s business strategies and goals, and the likelihood that employees will retain their jobs.
the public and the private sector have obligations and responsibilities under human rights law to proactively prevent discrimination.
facial recognition and other machine learning applications that can match disparate data sets will hamper people’s ability to control their own image.
there is ample and robust science behind well-being metrics and use by international and national institutions, yet many people
to assume that everyone has the time, knowledge, and resources for such testing and auditing.61 automated decision systems can be incredibly complex, and issues like bias and systematic errors may not be easily determined through the review of systems on an individual, case-by-case basis.62 a plan to grant meaningful access to quali ed researchers would allow individuals and communities to call upon the trusted external experts best suited to examine and monitor a system to assess whether there are issues that might harm the public interest.63
tools for analyzing nudging functionality and benefits and their relationships with user acceptance and trust;
aias would also bene t vendors that prioritize fairness, accountability, and transparency in their o erings.
“but throughout that process,” they note, “productivity gains have been reinvested to create new innovations, jobs, and industries, driving economic growth as older, less productive jobs are replaced with more advanced occupations.”
the declaration’s first objective consists in identifying the ethical principles and values that promote the fundamental interests of people and groups.
of success for a/is, we risk minimizing the positive and holistic impact for humanity of these technologies.
we will strive to make high-quality and accurate information readily available using ai, while continuing to respect cultural, social, and legal norms in the countries where we operate.
a/is technologies can be narrowly conceived from an ethical standpoint; be legal, profitable, and safe in their usage; and yet not positively contribute to human well-being.
 related potential barriers to overcome: availability and accessibility of talent with high-level ai expertise as well as ai practitioners, access to computing capacity.
“accountability of ai under the law : the role of explanation.” berkman klein center working group on explanation and the law, berkman klein center for internet & society working paper.
compositional changes are potentially important over this time period, as women’s educational attainment increased rapidly relative to men’s over this period, and the age of women in the labour force increased due to a rise in their employment tenure stemming from the stronger labour market attachment.
the recent world economic forum’s report on the future of jobs17 ranked complex problem-solving, critical thinking, creativity and managerial skills among the top four skills that will be most in demand by 2020. cognitive and behavioral skills – so called transversal skills – are also those that will best ensure the complementarity between ai and human intelligence.
contact us if you experience any difficulty logging in.the future of ai relies on a code of ethics – techcrunch
in no event shall ieee or ieee-sa industry connections activity members be liable for any errors or omissions or direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited to: procurement of
a distributed responsibility for ethics requires that all people involved in product design are encouraged to notice and respond to ethical concerns, particularly around safety, bias, and legality.
ai solution providers raised these concerns in our survey—they identified measuring and proving the business value of the ai solution as the top challenge facing their company (see figure 8).
value-based system design methods put human advancement at the core of a/is development.
projects supported include ones to combat the spread of measles, help welfare case workers identify individuals who may need additional support in finding work, and help victims of human trafficking, including by training algorithms to search for signals in police and investigative databases.
using a qualitative methodology, janssens and zanoni (2007) concluded that inclusive work contexts tend to involve practices encouraging the same treatment of employ- ees while simultaneously acknowledging individual differences, for example, recruitment of ethnic minorities based on individual capabilities rather than on ethnic membership; teams composed of different ethnicities performing jobs of the same status; and high task interde- pendence allowing for frequent, substantive communication among team members.
because the declaration concerns a technology which has been steadily progressing since the 1950s, and whose pace of major innovations increases in exponential fashion, it is essential to perceive the declaration as an open guidance document, to be revised and adapted according to the evolution of knowledge and techniques, as well as user feedback on ai use in society.
effective management of public sector
with respect to impact to the job market, it is clear that ai already brings tangible benefits for certain businesses and improved service levels to consumers.
is it acceptable for ai to control the running of an abattoir?
g7 multistakeholder conference on artificial intelligence
rankenstein’s monster haunts discussions of the ethics of artificial intelligence: the fear is that scientists will create something that has purposes and even desires of its own and which will carry them out at the expense of human beings.
our rights may be a ected by government agencies and actors.37 when automated systems play a signi cant role in government decisions, the public should be given notice.
in our democratic societies, everyone deserves proper treatment and basic rights.
for example, ai can be used for early detection of plant damage through low-altitude sensors, including smartphones and drones, to improve yield in small farms if farmers have access to technology; one project called farmbeats is building edge-computing technology that could one day make data-driven farming accessible for even the poorest farmers.7
as the “ethics” discourse gains ground, this declaration aims to underline the centrality of the universal, binding and actionable body of human rights law and standards, which protect rights and provide a well-developed framework for remedies.
the potential lack of clear lines of accountability for the consequences of aws might encourage malicious use of aws by those seeking to avoid responsibility for malicious or illegal acts.
moreover, millions of people will be freed up to perform social work for which robots are unsuited, such as caring for children, the sick, the elderly, and other vulnerable communities.
this same attention must be given to how data related to a/is are positioned from a regional perspective to best honor the use, or potential abuse of the global citizens’ data.
eld and increasingly a ects the human condition, there’s a chorus building among professionals and practitioners to have more guidance for the ethical decisions they are forced to make—and might be unaware they are making—on a daily basis.
subjective sense of right/wrong (“you have your ethics, i have mine”)
true prosperity for society at large and a/is technologies (as noted in the oxford handbook of well-being and public policy).
and so the question of whether data scientists and practitioners need a special focus on ethics is ultimately a question of whether data science represents a distinctly new way
although we will still block content based on standards and local laws, our hope is that this system of personal controls and democratic referenda should minimize restrictions on what we can share.
they show how a variety of organizations and academic institutions are taking the  rst steps to use ai solutions for social good.
and workers to develop standards like these for task-based work that might include wage, bene ts and fair treatment commitments.
in the second case, human intervention may be needed for reasons of “social acceptability” such as in interacting with patients or when decision making has individual consequences whereby existing regulations prohibit automatization.
the ieee global initiative on ethics of autonomous and intelligent systems (“the ieee global initiative”) is a program of the institute of electrical and electronics engineers (“ieee”), the world’s largest technical professional organization dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity with over 420,000 members in more than 160 countries.
• contractors: ensure design meets relevant engineering and defense standards for military products; deliver evidence for article 36 reviews using, but not restricted to, design reviews and simulation models; provide evidence requested by user for setting roe; ensure design has clear criteria for decisions made by their product.
this “notes from the ai frontier” discussion paper is part of an ongoing series of publications that explores aspects of artificial intelligence and its potential impact on business, the economy, and society.
4: association between moral machine preferences and other variables at the country level.
the elaboration of principles and recommendations is a co-construction work that involved a variety of participants in public spaces, in the boardrooms of professional organizations, around international expert round tables, in research ofﬁces, classrooms or online, always with the same rigour.
4 metcalf j, boyd danah and keller ef (2016) perspectives on big data, ethics, and society.
the guardian could serve as an educator and negotiator on behalf of its user by suggesting how requested data could be combined with other data that has already been provided, inform the user if data is being used in a way that was not authorized, or make recommendations to the user based on a personal profile.
it also must be able to assess whether these consequences are good or bad, or if they are acceptable or not, and this assessment is not absolute: while a decision may be good for
● q1: how do we make sure gender, social and cultural diversity fuel ai design and development?
angels think faster than people, they reason in intuitions while we have to break things down analytically to have any hope of communicating with one another and collaborating.
for example, after investigative reporting revealed that the data analysis company palantir had secretly partnered with the new orleans police department on a predictive policing system that potentially reinforced racial and other biases,42 the new orleans mayor’s o ce decided to allow the city’s contract with palantir to expire.43 had the new orleans police department engaged in an aia process before deployment, the system would have been subject to more rigorous review and possibly rejected outright, and many of the problems and objections might have been addressed without eroding public trust or possibly harming marginalized communities.44
the economic value of buildings, computer systems, tools, software and shares in other businesses becomes larger relative to how much money is given to people for their work.
the coziness between academics and the technology industry is something that has already sparked critique from observers who view their entanglement as a conflict of interest (e.g.
the reliability and factor structure of the scale was evaluated in study 2 and cross-validated in study 3. the results supported a five-factor model of diversity and inclusion and suggest a distinction between the concepts, although the terms may not describe separate types of work environments but different approaches to diversity management.
and it didn’t exactly bring out the best in people, for good reason.
these clear benelts are why google invests heavily in ai research and development, and makes ai technologies widely available to others via our tools and open-source code.
• empowerment: the rights-based approach to a/is should empower right holders to claim and exercise their rights.
this dynamic has resulted in some consumer resignation over the loss of control over personal information, despite a stated desire for additional control.
work outcome
 ensure that government staff at all levels have a sufficient understanding of ai to provide both oversight and identify opportunities for service modernization.
billed as the first of its kind in the us, this nascent task force promises to “[recommend] a process for reviewing government automated decision systems, more commonly known as algorithms.”33 their focus will be on ensuring that algorithms are “used appropriately and align with the goal of making new york city a fairer and more equitable place for all its residents.”
privacy concerns about sensitive personal data are already rife, and the ability to assuage these worries could help public acceptance of widespread ai use, for for-pro t as well as
machines and industrial processes supported by ai are augmenting human capacities in their decision making and providing digital assistance in very complex processes.
these collaborations are important and we’ll actively look for more ways to augment the critical work of these organizations and keep service members and civilians safe.
sa industry connections activity members disclaim any and all conditions relating to: results; and workmanlike effort.
this domain differs from the others in that it focuses on filtering or counteracting content that could mislead and distort, including false and polarizing information disseminated through the relatively new channels of the internet and social media.
as data moves from the original collection context to a change of context, agile ethics rules should be deployed.
it could start through regulatory “sandboxes” that provide a safe and controlled environment within which to test new algorithms, with government and citizen oversight.
many corporate workshops and exercises that attempt to consider ethics in technology practices present the conversation as a carte blanche for people
do our personal data belong to us and should we have the right to delete them?
• ieee digital inclusion through trust and agency industry connection program.
risk profiles of different social impact domains, level of risk
by drawing from over two thousand years’ worth of classical ethics traditions, the classical ethics in autonomous and intelligent systems committee will explore established ethics systems, addressing both scientific and religious approaches, including secular philosophical traditions such as utilitarianism, virtue ethics, and deontological ethics and religious- and-culture-based ethical systems arising from buddhism, confucianism, african ubuntu traditions, and japanese shinto influences toward an address of human morality in the digital age.
6) for public ais that have a signiﬁcant impact on the life of citizens, citizens should have the opportunity and skills to deliberate on the social parameters of these ais, their objectives, and the limits of their use.
deepmind ethics & society is a research unit that aims to explore the key ethical challenges facing the field of ai, through interdisciplinary work that brings together the technical insights of our team at deepmind and the diverse range of people who will be affected by it.
and we can hope that ai will make our societies better, in the best interest of, and with respect for, everyone.
we have been proud to be part of the epic team over the past 18 months, and we remain committed to working with others to continue to drive positive change across the value chain.”
the sophistication of data-sharing methodologies has evolved so these scenarios could evolve from an “either/or” relationship: “we get all of your data for this project, or you provide nothing and hinder this work”) to a “yes and” relationship — by allowing individuals to set their preferences for sharing and storing their data.
“the field of computer science dedicated to solving cognitive problems commonly associated with human intelligence, such as learning, problem solving, and pattern recognition.” – amazon
alphago defeated the world go champions by making strategically unprecedented moves—moves that humans had not conceived and have not yet successfully learned to overcome.
human analysis of data used to train models may be able to identify issues such as bias and lack of representation.
to leveraging the power of platforms, big data, and advanced analytics for the public good in a privacy-preserving, commercially sensible, stable, scalable, and sustainable manner.
this emerging field of research appears under many names, including: machine morality, machine ethics, moral machines, value alignment, computational ethics, artificial morality, safe ai, and friendly ai.
but you d  on’t n  eed to be an academic expert on moral philosophy to acquire this skill – just as most expert birdwatchers are n  ot  ornithologists.
the survey shows that those who have more experience with robots (at home, at work or elsewhere) are more positive toward their use.
• the on-demand economy allows businesses to engage workers on a short-term basis, facilitating business agility and reducing long-term staf ng costs.
although the ieee-sa industry connections activity members who have created this work believe that the information and guidance given in this work serve as an enhancement
given the persuasive power that an affective system may have over a user, ethical concerns related to nudging must be examined.
the la er are described as fol- lows: “supplement the large amount of qualita ve, descrip ve coverage already produced by ngos and the news me- dia”, “help external observers ... obtain a high-level picture of what is happening in the region over  me.
among other things, the system will let people train custom ml models without having to code.
i believe that in the nearfuture, almost all new technology will incorporate some form ofaior machine learning, enabling humans to interact with data and devices in ways we can’t yet imagine.
8) judicial transparency: any involvement by an autonomous system in judicial decision-making should provide a satisfactory explanation auditable by a competent human authority.
13 united nations, “guiding principles on business and human rights: implementing the united nations
in a world where this physical social infrastructure has been declining, we have a real opportunity to help strengthen these communities and the social fabric of our society.
one person, it may be bad for another; while
as two people from different disciplines who’ve bene ted from doing just that, we appreciate  rsthand the valuable and even enjoyable opportunities this can create.
but his big picture narrative about ai irks me.
in this sense, the barrier to getting online isn’t the newest app or smartphone, it’s usually the most low-tech barrier imaginable: your family or community.
but i hope that the examples and explanations above have given you some context for understanding the kinds of ways in which things can go right and wrong, and where many of the ethical risks in ai systems come from.
example suggests, they should also be ready to think outside the box and embrace solutions in which they may only shine as diligent data analysts in the background, rather than as providers of smart knowledge-based tools in the foreground.
in this regard, well-being considerations do not displace other issues of human rights or ethical methodologies, but rather complement them.
in its preamble, the declaration sets out the unprecedented ethical challenges that the development of artificial intelligence entails in the short and long term.
as creating technological innovations deemed threatening to humanity, especially when those innovations have significant probabilities of costly outcomes to people and society.
one such tradition is japanese shinto indigenous spirituality, (or, kami-no-michi), often cited as the very reason for japanese robot and autonomous systems culture, a culture more prevalent in japan than anywhere else in the world.
34 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
internationally recognized political, social, economic, and cultural rights.
to question the level of control we have over our data and privacy when integrating these pervasive technologies into our lives.
for instance, where a companion robot outfitted to measure the emotion of seniors in assisted living situations might be launched with a typical “move fast and break things” technological manufacturing model prioritizing largely fiscal metrics of success, these devices might fail in market because of limited adoption.
when considering problems such as these, teams should cultivate a “safety mindset” (as described by schneier [2008] in the context of computer security — to anticipate and preempt adversaries at every level of design and implementation), and suggest that many of these problems can likely be better understood by studying adversarial examples (as discussed
is how long a target that has been designated and verified by an authorized human in a given situational context remains a legitimate target.
what will be the impact of the increased use of algorithms in policy development and service delivery, and will the design of algorithms take into account potential biases?
similarly, industry organizations would be able to specialize norms and industry self- regulation (e.g., any automated flight attendants should prevent onboard smoking and sit down during takeoff) as a layer.
george walker, neuberger berman chief executive officer: “neuberger berman is pleased to be a part of the group working to facilitate measurement and management of intangible assets, which increasingly represent a meaningful part of companies’ value.
after all, it is up to us to decide if we want certain jobs to be performed, care to be given or medical decisions to be made by ai, and if we want to accept ai that may jeopardise our safety, privacy or autonomy,” ms muller argued.
should ensure that humans maintain control with appropriate transparency.
third, further ques ons concern which aspects are important to judge the legal and ethical dimensions of a rescue op- era on (cf.
given the disproportionate impact our intelligence has enabled our species to have on the planet and our way of life, we should expect agi systems to have a disproportionate impact on our future, on a scale not seen since the industrial revolution.
ai, on the other hand, is designed to seek patterns, learn from experiences, and make appropriate decisions — it does not require an explicit programmed path to determine how it will respond to the situations it encounters.
within that range, content should simply not be shown to anyone whose personal controls suggest they would not want to see it, or at least they should see a warning first.
first, our community is evolving from its origin connecting us with family and friends to now becoming a source of news and public discourse as well.
22) recursive self-improvement: ai systems designed to recursively self-improve or self-replicate in a manner that could lead to rapidly increasing quality or quantity must be subject to strict safety and control measures.
there is a real opportunity to build global safety infrastructure, and i have directed facebook to invest more and more resources into serving this need.
second, while we believe that ai will help improve daily life in many ways and help solve big societal problems, we can’t afford to look to this future with uncritical eyes.
inclusive communities that embrace fairness and equality of opportunity
we may not have the power to create the world we want immediately, but we can all start working on the long term today.
of responsibility, culpability, liability, and accountability for a/is where possible during development and deployment (so that manufacturers and users understand their rights and obligations).
researcher jurgen de wispelaere, who has worked on finland’s basic income experiment and has consulted on proposed projects in barcelona, scotland, portugal and corsica, said research ethics exist to protect human subjects from harm.
breaching privacy over personal information could cause harm
thank you for being part of this community, and thanks for everything you do to make the world more open and connected.
these clear human rights violations, from sex trafficking and child armies, to indentured farming or manufacturing labor, increase a country’s gdp.
current data-sharing arrangements are more akin to a form of data feudalism where data is managed on our behalf with irregular oversight.
ai advancements will make robots operate more flexibly in tasks that so far required human skills.
while virtually all enterprises have a compliance team, the past few years have brought about a realization that the scope of ethics is distinct.
government agencies will be pressured by the public to regulate the development of robots according to ethical standards.
currently, three “senses” of accountability related to ai exist in the literature, each pointing to a different locus for action.
“governing artificial intelligence.” data & society.
in: data science for social good conference 2017, sep. 28-29, 2017, chicago, il http://dssg.uchicago.edu/wp- content/uploads/2017/09/auerbach.pdf
and intelligent systems that explicitly honor inalienable human rights and the beneficial values of their users, we can prioritize the increase of human well-being as our metric for progress in the algorithmic age.
third, we address the challenge of norm conflicts that naturally arise in a complex social world.
privacy impact assessments (pias) will also be presented as a tool for both identifying where privacy controls and measures are needed and for confirming they are in place.
algorithms, machine learning and, more broadly, artificial intelligence (ai) promise to introduce astounding levels of efficiencies to cities’ monitoring of citizens and infrastructure, their planning and governance, and their service response and decision-making.
ai enabling people with low vision to hear information about the world around them
the idea isn’t to replace people with machines, but to supplement human capabilities with the unmatched ability of ai to analyze huge amounts of data and  nd patterns that would otherwise be impossible to detect.
● the attention economy : the increasing monetization of human attention, in ways that negatively impact the cognitive, emotional, and physical health of many individuals and families, create risks of technological addiction, and are correlated with significant economic and productivity losses in the workplace.
• rothblatt, m. virtually human: the promise— and the peril—of digital immortality.
“diversity encompasses the many ways people may differ, including gender, race, nation- ality, education, sexual orientation, style, functional expertise, and a wide array of other characteristics and backgrounds that make a person unique.”
self-verification theory, which proposes that individuals join groups in part to verify their personal and social self-views, has been examined empirically at the individual level in the social psychology literature.
“piaf: a privacy impact assessment framework for data protection and privacy rights,” 2011. section 10.3.
the work of epic underscores how important it is to investors to have enhanced reporting on topics, such as human capital, that can truly enable investors to understand how effectively a company is positioning itself for the long-term.”
this directive applies only to government of canada systems in development that provide external services, and can be applied to any system, tool, or model used to make administrative decisions.
in chapter 3, we look at the impact of ai on jobs and work, and offer some suggestions for steps we can take together
and reviewed by members of the ieee-sa industry connections activity that produced this work.
to help reduce the risk of privacy intrusions, governments should support and promote the development of techniques that enable systems to use personal data without accessing or knowing the identities
as a heuristic, when teams develop potentially dangerous systems, those systems should be “safe by design,” in the sense that if everything goes according to plan, then the safety precautions discussed above should not be necessary (see christiano [2015] for a discussion of a related concept he terms “scalable ai control”).
the application of ai for societal benefit is an emerging topic and many research questions and issues remain unanswered.
 related potential barriers to overcome: availability and accessibility of talent with high-level ai expertise as well as ai practitioners, access to technology for users, organization receptiveness, organization deployment ef ciency,
disclaimer: while we have provided recommendations in this document, it should be understood these are not formal policy recommendations endorsed by ieee and do not represent a position or the views of ieee but the informed opinions of policy committee members providing insights designed to provide expert directional guidance regarding a/is.
thus far, significant literature has emerged indicating positive impact on mental health and physical functioning using theoretically-informed mr applications with well-designed content delivered within the more controlled (and safe) context of the therapy setting, administered and supervised by a well- trained clinician.
artificial intelligence has large potential to contribute to global economic activity.
this point has been made after us president trump, in october 2017, declared the opioid crisis (which affects many poor white people) a public health emergency rather than another type of drugs on which to wage war [38].
it extremely difficult for human operators to exercise meaningful supervisory control once they have been activated, other than deciding when to switch them off.
and if people don’t trust ai systems, they will be less likely to contribute to the development of such systems and to use them.
the society has prosecuted many for leading girls astray through these picture shows, but god alone knows how many are leading dissolute lives begun at the ‘moving pictures.’
 implement the accountability and governance model, with shared roles and responsibilities, to guide the implementation of this strategic plan.
ai should exclusively be at the service of humans well-being, ai could be allowed to sense human well-being and be allowed to interact with human in the intention of helping a human’s health and a human’s well-being.
on ai in medical devices address some of the issues related to security of ai-enabled devices, the ethics of testing those devices to bring them to market are not developed into recognized national (e.g., u.s. fda) or international
major shifts on the demand side are also occurring, as growing transparency, consumer engagement, and new patterns of consumer behavior (increasingly built upon access to mobile networks and data) force companies to adapt the way they design, market, and deliver products and services.
we identi ed 18 ai capabilities that could potentially be used for social bene t, of which 14 fall into three major categories: computer vision, natural language processing, and speech and audio processing.
to ensure that they best serve the public interest, policies should:
in my talks with ieee leadership (particularly with john c. havens, and in my interview withkonstantinos karachalios – managing director of the ieee standards association), it seemed clear that the first version of ethically aligned design is intended to spark conversation and flesh out possibilities – as opposed to imposing hard boundaries around “soft” ethical issues right away.
there is the possibility that ar/ vr realities could copy/emulate/ hijack creative authorship and intellectual and creative property with regard to both human and/or ai-created works.
other organizations are doing work along these lines, like the oecd via their february, 2017 workshop, measuring business impacts on people’s well-being.
governments can also invest in and promote methods and processes for linking and combining related datasets from public and private organizations while preserving con dentiality, privacy and security as circumstances require.
when ai manages basic tasks, this may result in an increase in workers’ qualifications.
in other words, exposing an inequity or proposing a solution to a social problem doesn’t necessarily mean that social good will follow.
the commission will present ethical guidelines on ai development by the end of 2018, based on the eu’s charter of fundamental rights, taking into account principles such as data protection and transparency, and building on the work of theeuropean group on ethics in science and new technologies.
safety and beneficence of artificial general intelligence (agi) and artificial superintelligence (asi)
codes of conduct should also more broadly ensure that the artifacts and agents offered into the world by members actively reflect the professional organization’s standards of professional ethics.
we believe the following steps will promote the safety and reliability of ai systems:
a/is has unprecedented access to human culture and human spaces — both physical and intellectual — for something that is not a human.
and a good library was a physical testament to the character of the collector.
active investing requires deep engagement with companies, which combined with broader industry initiatives, can create long-term value for our clients.”
as the market leader in enterprise technology that touches 77 percent of the world’s transaction revenue and serves more than 400,000 customers worldwide, sap solutions and applications impact the lives of billions of people daily.
two important values are the need to protect each individual’s private data and the need to ensure each individual retains personal power in society through the ownership of ‘loyal’ ai.
sap applications and services enable more than 404,000 business and public sector customers to operate profitably, adapt continuously, and grow sustainably.
in addition, the european commission will foster wide uptake of ai across europe, via a toolbox for potential users and a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, non-tech companies and public administrations: this will include a network of ai- focused digital innovation hubs facilitating testing and experimentation; the set-up of industrial data platforms offering high quality datasets; and an ai-on-demand platform to facilitate access for all potential users to relevant ai resources in the eu.
structured and unstructured data from sources including social media, browsing history, telecom, and know-your-customer data can be used to train ai models.
this evaluation process must be anticipated during design and incorporated into the implementation process, and it must continue throughout the life cycle of the system’s deployment.
beyond a limited number of pieces addressing the “dual use” or import/export requirements for a/is in weapons development, there are no guidelines or standards governing topics ordinarily reserved for review by institutional biosafety committees, or institutional radiological safety committees,
generalized suspicion about technology doesn’t necessarily help people understand the media—as presidential attacks on biased search engines and fake news have recently made clear.
language understanding  enabling chatbots that understand abstract concepts and ambiguous language, eg, ones that
this is a concern when personal data is not accessible by an individual and the future iterations of their personas or identity cannot
the inclusion framework we have proposed posits that, within work groups, members can be valued for their unique attributes and that, in fact, group members endeavor to feel valued for their unique attributes at the same time that they want to belong to the group.
 privacy, security and legal concerns,
after all, if ai technologies can deliver most of the goods and services that we need at less cost, why should we spend our precious time laboring?
the principles of the current declaration rest on the common belief that human beings seek to grow as social beings endowed with sensations, thoughts and feelings, and strive to fulﬁll their potential by freely exercising their emotional, moral and intellectual skills.
“23) common good: superintelligence should only be developed in the service of widely shared ethical ideals, and for the benefit of all humanity rather than one state or orga- nization.”
in-depth genetic analysis, ai offers vast opportunities to transform how we understand disease and improve health.
“people are selling what are essentially black box systems,” andrew selbst, a researcher at data & society in new york, says.
so, after taking time to explore a few use cases for artificial intelligence (ai), you’re ready to give it a go.
law’s complexity runs along many axes, including applying to many areas of human endeavour and impacting many different aspects of our lives.
mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 25
8. principle of fairness
taken as a whole, the articulated principles lay the foundation of social trust towards artiﬁcially intelligent systems.
while the use of well-being metrics to justify human rights violations is an unconscionable perversion of the nature of any well-being
ethical considerations regarding data are often focused largely on issues of privacy — what rights should a person have to keep certain information to themselves or have input into how it is shared?
• see also appendix 5: can personal data remain anonymous?
furthermore, democracies, in particular, will need to establish frameworks for holding those in charge of ai applications accountable.
some think chief ethics officers could help technology companies navigate political and social questions.
scale ai will work to promote the ai and technological readiness of the canadian workforce through a world-class diversity agenda, significant industry talent development and re-skilling programs, and by increasing the number of college and university graduates in ai and intelligent supply chains.
edward santow (australia), australian human rights commissioner
at the end of the declaration’s elaboration process, we have reached the starting point for an open and inclusive conversation surrounding the future of humanity being served by artiﬁcial intelligence technologies.
• the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, 2006.
 promote responsible and inclusive government research in computer science, ethical robotics and ai engineering practices, and legal innovation.
to prevent harm, we can build social infrastructure to help our community identify problems before they happen.
for a/is to demonstrably advance the well-being of humanity, there needs to be concise and useful indicators to measure those advancements.
google had been subcontracting for the pentagon on project maven, which was meant to bring the benefits of ai to war-fighting.
therefore, successful strategies for ai adoption have to master the new paradigms which combine ai algorithms, data, human expertise, regulations and policies into digitized knowledge and memory.
and by keeping all of our journalism free and open to all, we can foster inclusivity, diversity, make space for debate, inspire conversation – so more people, across the world, have access to accurate information with integrity at its heart.
cities, and their residents, benefit from technologies and policies that leverage digital and information technology, data analytics, sensing, and more.”
some data science sub-disciplines have also produced valuable ethics codes and other types of ethics guidance for their members.
this results in many ai capabilities being applicable across these domains.
also, guaranteeing that data is free of biases requires tremendous human effort both in data collection and successively in testing “in the field”.
the scale was evaluated using a sample of diversity professionals in study 2 and retested using a sample of organizational development professionals in study 3. i conclude with a discussion of the theoretical and practical implica- tions of this research as well as directions for further research.
in the model, attributes for employee participation and organizational outcomes as indicators for diverse organiza- tions (factor 4) and for inclusive organizations (factor 5) loaded on separate latent factors, thus resulting in a five-factor model.
and having no profit motive themselves, the researchers can safeguard the proprietary raw data of competing transportation companies, and only allow queries of the database that abide by data sharing agreements participating parties have agreed to in advance.
leading ai research centres, recently ran a 6-week “ai for social good lab” to teach technical concepts in ai (and business topics) with the goal of solving important social
to create a/is that enhances human well-being and freedom, system design methodologies should also be enriched by putting greater emphasis on internationally recognized human rights, as a primary form of human values.
of software, what will happen to actual human contact, which might always remain undigitizable in meaningful ways?
on the other hand, i will refer to knowledge as the more immediate output of an ai or ds activity.
be an ai system designed to help employers screen job applicants.
“being unable to escape poverty even while working is not only inhumane, it’s also a huge opportunity cost for ontario and canada’s business,” the letter notes.
moreover, there is an alternative to the method and culture of data sharing by default: federated learning, or decentralized machine learning, which occurs on the user’s device such that the lessons learned are sent back for analysis, without the need for data sharing (2).
or 30 percent of the working-age population — engaged in some form of independent work.
not only for consent regarding the use of their personal data, but for improved trust between individuals and creators of these environments regarding user experience.
imagination, knowledge and new thinking are needed to unleash the potential that disruptive technologies have to address and solve societal issues.
it clear who has access to a user’s data and for what purpose, and (where relevant) allow the user to manage access permissions.
consistent with thomas and ely’s (1996) diversity management paradigms, this factor included learning and effectiveness outcomes resulting from the integration of diversity into work processes (e.g., innovation and creativity, organizational flexibility, etc.)
here the human task is not conceptually modified but the worker can draw on systems that can help boosting performance: diagnosis and therapeutic recommendations, customer service in the banking sector, etc.
and even geospatial data to identify extremist online content for removal are all examples of multimodal applications for social good.
bias in ai may perpetuate and aggravate existing prejudices and social inequalities, affecting already vulnerable populations and potentially amplifying existing cultural prejudices.
and this is a real bene t, because, as researchers in cognitive psychology have established, human decision- making is often imperfect.
the private and public sectors must join together to explore how to best support workers in the new economy.
in other words, domain knowledge is operationalized as academic expertise in a particular subject matter.
the fourth industrial revolution will also profoundly impact the nature of national and international security, affecting both the probability and the nature of conflict.
artificial intelligence (ai) and machines’ ability to “learn” marks a new chapter in digital transformation; it breathes new life into the potential for unstructured data and software and marks a profound shift in interface and customer experience.
second, the differential treatment of male and female characters in the moral machine corresponded to the country-level gender gap in health and survival (a composite in which higher scores indicated higher ratios of female to male life expectancy and sex ratio at birth—a marker of female infanticide and anti-female sex-selective abortion).
this approach is consistent with the values laid out in our original founders’ letter back in 2004. there we made clear our intention to take a long-term perspective, even if it means making short-term tradeoffs.
the common good has been defined as “that which benefits society as a whole” [6].
moral values are related to good and evil: they allow us, for example, to qualify an action as just or unjust, honest or dishonest, commendable or blameworthy.
this covers data from public utilities and the environment as well as research and health data.
where friends and colleagues would previously emphasize eye contact and physical proximity as a way of establishing trust and a sense of cohesion, mr will change the way we perceive the people we interact with.
emotion recognition (speech)  assisting individuals on the autism spectrum who have difficulty in social interactions
such aws may have very different design and safety requirements than military aws.
individual insight and scientific knowledge replaced faith as the principal criterion of human consciousness.
this paper was developed at the request of the government of canada to support the g7 multi-stakeholder conference on artificial intelligence: enabling the responsible adoption of ai on december 6, 2018. co-leads from canada and japan developed this paper on accountability, the intent of which is to provide a starting point for discussions on the topic of accountability in ai: promoting greater social trust at the conference.
this quantitative approach provided a directional means to identify ai capabilities with higher potential to bring about social impact, and others where ai deployment would be useful but not as impactful.
harry shum, executive vice president artificial intelligence and research group
through satisfying human needs for belongingness and uniqueness, such perceptions should have more consistent effects on outcomes pertinent to individuals in work groups, such as pro-organizational attitudes and behaviors.
“domain knowledge,” or expertise in a particular subject matter, is typically considered to be an integral part of data science, depicted as “substantive expertise” by the oft- cited data science venn diagram developed by drew conway (fig.
• the swedish personal data protection act
of 27 april 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free
audit trails to help guarantee accountability and control
more than 160 countries have rati ed the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which covers access to digital technology in education and employment.
in other cases, an ai system can perform with greater accuracy than a human (often by processing more information), for example early identification of plant disease to prevent infection of
drawing on techniques from various disciplines, we have sketched the organization of such “attacks” as “tool clinics” [86].
achieving human brain capability would require several orders of magnitude increases in computational power.
“the ethics of algorithms: mapping the debate.” big data & society (july–december, 2016): 1–21.
another area for increased transparency is in ai’s impact on regulatory compliance adherence—both existing and new data protection regulations like the eu’s global data protection regulation (gdpr).
what if public schools, working with our great universities, were hosts to community conversations about emerging opportunities and new challenges?
the development of the steam locomotive, which was an important catalyst in the shift from a largely rural and agricultural society to one where more and more people lived in urban centers and worked in manufacturing and transportation — a transformation that changed how, when and where people worked.
this subcommittee addresses issues related to emotions and emotion-like control in both humans and artifacts.
being in a completely mediated vr environment could, for example, fool the mind into thinking and feeling as it did in an earlier stage of
while the decline in employment for men during the great recession may have been particularly severe following the housing crisis, our results suggest that the great recession was not unusual in terms of the gender difference in employment behaviour.
to use a simple example, we can train a system to detect lung cancer on x-rays even if no radiologist is involved in the training process, yet these systems will perform as well as professionally trained radiologists.
finally, nishii (2010) provides evidence that a climate of inclusion involves fair employment practices, interpersonal integration of diverse employees, and involvement in decision making.
so in learning to win go by playing it differently than humans do, ai has changed both the game’s nature and its impact.
for example, if a bank’s machine learning model denies you credit, and does so without meaningful human intervention, then, some scholars argue, the bank owes you an explanation of how it arrived at that decision.
and while it is true that ai will eliminate and change some jobs, it will also create new ones.
rigorously created well-being assessments could be utilized as a public “scoreboard,” or statement of intent, that would provide innovation opportunities for technologists as well as a form of public accountability for human sustainability.
as delong notes, “more than ever before, we are producing commodities that contribute to social welfare through use value rather than market value.” and people are spending increasingly more time “interacting with information-technology systems where the revenue flow is, at most, a tiny trickle tied to ancillary advertising.”
the phrasing “ai for common good” has been used in the titles of two recent white papers, one prepared for attendees of the 2018 world economic forum an- nual meeting [14], and one by north highland con- sulting [15].
), artificial intel- ligence for the social good.
systems created to act outside of the boundaries of “appropriate human judgment,” “effective human control,” or “meaningful human control,” violate fundamental human rights and undermine legal accountability for weapons use.
2. publicly disclose information about each automated decision system, including details about its purpose, reach, potential internal use policies or practices, and implementation timeline;
 support research and innovation in ai: the rapid evolution and diffusion of ai requires appropriate actions to support research and innovation both at the government level and clearly at the international level;
assessment before full-scale deployment would best take place in systematic test beds that allow human users (from the defined community, and representing all demographic groups) to engage safely with
• fleischmann, k. r. information and human values.
while this is clearly a formidable challenge, when machines can integrate the smarts of iq and the empathy of eq in their interactions, we will have achieved what we call “conversational ai.”
4. designers of affective robotics, especially intimate systems, must foresee and publicly acknowledge that these systems can interfere with the relationship dynamics between human partners, causing jealousy or feelings of disgust to emerge between human partners.
there are many questions about ai’s impact on our work.
industry connections facilitates collaboration among organizations and individuals as they hone and refine their thinking on emerging technology issues, helping to incubate potential new standards activities and standards-related products and services.
otherwise, all ai will be built to prioritize exponential growth which runs the risk of accelerating automation as primarily a fiscal justification versus universal availability and benefit of this amazing technology for all.
our library of use cases, which forms the basis of our analysis, currently has about 160 use cases in ten social impact domains.
synthetic emotions may increase accessibility of ai, but may deceive humans into false identification with ai, leading to overinvestment of time, money, trust, and human emotion.
developing policy and law for arti cial intelligence
multiple global bodies believe pii is a sovereign asset belonging to an identified individual.
4 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
thus, both objectives, the access to data as basis for innovation on the one side and data protection and its transparent usage on the other side needs to be balanced.
a simpler alternative, sometimes suitable even for machine learning systems, is to test the a/is against a set of scenarios and assess how well it matches its normative requirements (e.g., acting in accordance with relevant norms; recognizing other agents’ norm violations).
some experiments suggest that ai can diagnose skin cancer with greater accuracy than human dermatologists; in a pilot, ai classification of skin lesions as melanomas versus benign beat classification by 58 dermatologists.
there is an obligation to consider the foreseeable use of the system, and whether there is a high risk for misuse.
the master grant agreement summa- rizes the challenges and the approach of the project: “the loca on of a mobile
of ai, including the partnership on ai, which brings together academics, researchers, civil society organizations, and companies building and utilizing ai technology to better understand ai’s impacts.3 and major technology companies including microsoft and google have articulated their philosophy and practices on ai; google’s  rst principle is “be socially bene cial.”4
therefore it is time we recognized that structural changes in the economy are occuring that make obsolete basic income related left vs. right views on welfare reform and laziness.
“towards moral autonomous systems,” 2017.
the social and practical wisdom of involved practitioners and other stakeholders.
scale ai is canada’s artificial intelligence (ai) supercluster dedicated to building the next-generation supply chain and boosting industry performance by leveraging ai technologies.
the questions of confidence in the justice system, and of whether to facilitate and deliver justice by means of ai (including the development of a taxonomy of the types of decisions that can or should be made using ai), can only be fully answered by those in whom that confidence resides: the public.the policy deficit behind canadian artificial intelligence
using big data to study rescue pa erns in the med- iterranean.
on the other end of the scale, there are chess problems: “an arrangement of pieces in which the solver has to achieve a specified result” or mathe- matics/physics problems: “an inquiry starting from given conditions to investigate or demonstrate a fact, result, or law.”
it is time to update how we value companies and measure their impact on all stakeholders, not just shareholders.
), and those would be alongside the other deeper- down subgoals and values as well for societal benefit, public safety, etc., directly relating
and scale of potential impact, will support a/is researchers and developers in making optimal design decisions without relying solely on the oversight of review boards.
these issues require a strong consensus-driven governance model that is focused on successful delivery of work streams and projects, portfolio, program and change management.
in and out will be central to the coming digital experiences; but what happens with the opposite — when people choose to opt-out of the “real” world in favor of illusion?
• best practices such as privacy impact assessments will assist with identification of data misuse cases at early stages of system/ software design.
we consciously use terms like ‘loyal' and ‘agent' that conjure images of ai tools as autonomous entities having advanced general intelligence and human-like qualities.
however, the call to develop and deploy ai for the common good has, to the best of my knowledge, not yet led to research programs or publications un- der that name.
there is much work to be done: the legal and academic community must increase engagement in this rapidly developing field from its members.
2 see, for example, how to prevent discriminatory outcomes in machine learning, world economic forum, march 12, 2018. the institute for electrical and electronics engineers has announced the approval of three standards projects inspired by the work of its global initiative for ethical considerations in artificial intelligence and autonomous systems.
it also includes a use case and data model for organizations developing applications involving personal information.
5. principle of security
individual is treated as an insider in the work group when they conform to organizational/dominant culture norms and downplay uniqueness.
ai evolution that is by design intertwined with cyber-security could help to protect ai algorithms as well as to make ai available as tool for increasing cyber security.
parties, their lawyers, and courts must have reasonable access to all data and information generated and used by a/is technologies employed by governments and other
we also made comparisons vertically to assess domains with regard to the potential use of ai.
the risks posed by the deployment of ai in the delivery of legal services include nontransparency and concerns about where to locate liability for harms, as well as various forms of bias latent in the data relied on, in the way that algorithms interact with those data and in the way that users interact with the algorithm.
artificial intelligence (ai) opens up wonderful opportunities, but democratic societies will
society and environment: the impact on external stakeholders and communities by contributing to business-relevant social and environmental goals.
how can we best ensure that ai is safe and reliable?
philosophers and others in the field of the humanities who helped shape previous concepts of world order tend to be disadvantaged, lacking knowledge of ai’s mechanisms or being overawed by its capacities.
“intersection of ‘tokku’ special zone, robots, and the law: a case study on legal impacts to humanoid robots.” international journal of social robotics 7, no.
a/is capacity and governance problems are addressed, lmics will have the ability to use a/is to transform their economies and leapfrog into a new era of inclusive growth if a clear path for development is provided.
• provide a basis for public expectations and evaluation of the profession
it may sound harsh though j. here is what i had written to an internal ai team here at the nrc in response to your declaration.
in a new town); and they respond to feedback from others when they exhibit uncertainty about norms or have violated a norm.
thus, the results of this study suggest that inclusive work practices and diversity- related outcomes may be characteristic of organizations that are diverse and/ or inclusive.
pelled and colleagues (1999) focused on three practices as indicators of inclusion: decision-making influence, access to sensitive work information, and job security.
advances in ai will have transformative impacts in a wide range of lelds, including healthcare, security, energy, transportation, manufacturing, and entertainment.
in: data science for social good conference 2017, sep. 28-29, 2017, chicago, il http://dssg.uchicago.edu/wp- content/uploads/2017/09/baumgartner.pdf
the personalized consumption of controversial immersive content could pose challenges for effective public oversight and erode the distinction between what is real
to date, damaged trust in traditional social authorities—such as lawmakers, scientists and legacy media—has not been replaced by other widely trusted social agents.
notes from the ai frontier applying ai for social good
erally, data science has been defined as “the science (or study) of data” and “a new interdisciplinary field that synthesizes and builds on statistics, informatics, computing, communication, management, and soci- ology to study data and its environments (including domains and other contextual aspects, such as orga- nizational and social aspects) in order to transform data to insights and decisions by following a data- to-knowledge-to-wisdom thinking and methodology” [19].
the business or academic, engineering, or policy arenas are advised to review the appendix listing well-being metrics to familiarize themselves with existing indicators already relevant to their work.
as a whole, perhaps through groups like the partnership on artificial intelligence, our ieee global initiative, or per the asilomar ai principles.
if individuals cannot access their personal data and account for how it is used, they cannot benefit from the insights that the data could provide.
for instance, theoretical perspectives most commonly relied upon in the diversity literature (relational demography, social identity theory, and the similarity-attraction paradigm) argue that people seek to belong to groups and tend to treat people in their in-groups more favorably than those in out-groups (byrne, 1971; lemyre & smith, 1985; riordan & weatherly, 1999).
see: the un practitioners’ portal on human rights based programming.
there is a real opportunity to connect more of us with groups that will be meaningful social infrastructure in our lives.
in a globally competitive talent market, canada enjoys one of the most significant concentrations of ai resources anywhere in the world, particularly along the quebec-waterloo corridor.
how can ai guarantee respect for personal privacy?
for the purposes of this paper, we use ai as shorthand specifically to refer to deep learning techniques that use artificial neural networks.
1)  c  onceptual frameworks  that help you recognize ethical issues when you are in their presence, and help you to describe them; as noted above, this is where a loose grasp of ethical theory can work like a field guide to practical ethical concerns.
social media, for all their powers, cannot give us what we get from churches, unions, athletic clubs and welfare states.
where in shinto, the artifact as artificial represents creation and authentic being (with implications for defining autonomy), the same is designated as secondary and oft times unnatural, false,
first and foremost, the smart contract infrastructure would be expected to enforce a number of principles and protocols that ensure that individuals retain control of their personal profile data as they interact with people, businesses and institutions.
policy experts can specify core values and/or sub-objectives as rules for the benefit of society utilizing well-being metrics as a starting point
lastly, acquavita, pittman, gibbons, and castellanos-brown (2009) showed in a study of social workers that inclusion-exclusion was associated with job satisfaction.
transparency should also apply to the input data selection process.
privacy concerns about sensitive personal data are already rife, and the ability to assuage these worries could help public acceptance of widespread ai use, for for-profit as well as
the aim of these recommendations is to prepare students for the technical training and engineering development methodologies that incorporate ethics as essential so that ethics and human rights become naturally part of the design process.
our methods, circumstances and challenges may differ, but we are all united in a common vision that the economy must benefit everyone.
ethics in technology practice  is a project developed by the markkula center for applied ethics and made possible by a grant from omidyar network's tech and society solutions lab.
the relationship between assumed moral customs (mores), the ethical critique of those customs (i.e., ethics), and the law are important distinctions.
in this final chapter, we suggest some areas in which stakeholders could make a meaningful contribution to further the use of ai for the benefit of society, especially in overcoming the key impediments of data accessibility, talent, and implementation.
this is how language works and how humans try to understand their natural and artificial environment.
our goal is to strengthen existing communities by helping us come together online as well as offline, as well as enabling us to form completely new communities, transcending physical location.
the ambition to be good for all (or at least many) people has become prominent throughout computer science in general and ai in particular.
we identified 18 ai capabilities that could potentially be used for social benefit, of which 14 fall into three major categories: computer vision, natural language processing, and speech and audio processing.
the development and use of ais must be compatible with maintaining social and cultural diversity and must not restrict the scope of lifestyle choices or personal
this interpretation corresponds to the strong representa- tion of data science projects at least in the “ai for
but that doesn’t necessarily mean that we will know how best to address the role they should play in society.
this article raises doubts about the possibility of imbuing artificial agents with morality, or claiming
this principle concerning the quality of life of all people affirms an obligation to protect fundamental human rights and to respect the di- versity of all cultures.”
as an example, consider the recent case of a commercial cargo ship that took on 113 people saved by an ngo rescue ship and then spent four days in a poli cal stand- o  on a zig-zag trajectory between ports before being allowed to dock in sicily (al
ultimately, we want the terms and conditions for using personal data to become negotiable in a fair
• along with the use of a/is, discussions related to identity, platforms, and blockchain are needed to ensure that all of the core enabling technologies are designed to meet the needs of lmics.
unique to technological relationships in world cultures, since the shinto tradition is arguable the only animistic and naturalistic tradition that can be directly connected to contemporary digital culture and a/is.
• cranor, l. f. “personal privacy assistants in the age of the internet of things,” presented at the world economic forum annual meeting, 2016.
new organizational and socio-cultural processes that broaden the scope around professional ethics and design need
for each character, δp is the difference the between the probability of sparing this character (when presented alone) and the probability of sparing one adult man or woman (n = 1 million).
or providers of solutions or services that substantially incorporate such systems, should make available statistically sound evaluation protocols through which they measure, quality assure, and substantiate their claims of performance, for example, relying where available on protocols and standards developed by the national institute of standards and technology (nist) or other standard-setting bodies.
for example, the disclosure of automated decision systems and meaningful information about those systems will not be feasible if essential information is shielded from review by blanket claims of trade secrecy.45 while there are certainly some core aspects of systems that have competitive commercial value, it is unlikely that these extend to information such as the existence of the system, the purpose for which it was acquired, or the results of the agency’s internal impact assessment.
this problem doesn’t just manifest in ai: it also manifests when people are asked to make value judgments across cultures.
the vast majority of contributions worked with one (sometimes vaguely described or even only implicit) social goal and one computational goal.
important work is also underway at many universities and governmental and non-governmental organizations.10
epic brought together companies and investors to help define how firms create long-term value and offer potential ways to measure and report on that.”
(“we don’t, i don’t think, as a committee really know how to get the socks on the octopus, so to speak, here because it’s complicated,” said california democrat rep. anna eshoo, regarding increasing pressure for policymakers to understand big data and algorithms used by technology companies).
of ai, including the partnership on ai, which brings together academics, researchers, civil society organizations, and companies building and utilizing ai technology to better understand ai’s impacts.3 and major technology companies including microsoft and google have articulated their philosophy and practices on ai; google’s first principle is “be socially beneficial.”4
following that logic, there is no reason to believe that tasks such as coding, software engineering or even system design will survive unchanged.
while important, these metrics fail to encompass the full spectrum of well-being for individuals or society.
while ai may make cities’ planning and governance more efficient, it needs to be regulated to ensure it complies with legal rights and protections.
a human-centered approach can only be realized if researchers, policymakers, and leaders from government, business and civil society come together to develop a shared ethical framework for arti cial intelligence.
1) ais processes that make decisions affecting a person’s life, quality of life, or reputation must be intelligible to their creators.
in addition, many existing government programs rely upon wage data to assess em- ployment outcomes; a broader set of data may be needed to understand the true impact of newer contingent worker arrangements.
this is a long list, and it is likely to require collaboration among companies, governments, and ngos to set up regular data forums in each industry to work on data availability, accessibility, and connectivity issues, ideally setting global industry standards and collaborating closely on use cases, to ensure that implementation becomes feasible.
(for example, therapists have held autism group-counseling sessions inside of second life, reporting that group members did better expressing themselves when they had an avatar with which to participate.)
12 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
at a recent company event, he elaborated: “we can have a structured conversation not just with our own employees myopically, but by bringing in the key advisers, supporters and pundits and philosophers and everybody necessary to ask the question if what we are doing today is ethical and humane.”
we should recognize that, for example, occupational therapists and their assistants may have on-the- ground expertise in working with a patient, who themselves might be the “end user” of a robot or social ai technology.
however, modernizing the social safety net will require a multifaceted approach such as:
individuals have status characteristics that are associated with their social categories aris- ing from the broader culture (e.g., age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation; turner, stets, cook, & massey, 2006).
this is why the commission is encouraging member states to modernise their education and training systems and support labour market transitions, building on theeuropean pillar of social rights.
2. how ai capabilities can be used for societal benefit
agencies could also use the aia as an opportunity to lay out any other procedures that will help secure public trust in such systems.
to the justice-related events pertinent to the balance of power and relations across social groups (kossek & zonia, 1993).” recent research suggests the significance of aggregated justice perceptions at the work group level for predicting such important outcomes as commitment, customer service, organizational citizenship behaviors, and turnover intentions (ehrhart, 2004; simons & roberson, 2003).
providing safe and ef cient transportation is another critical challenge where ai can play an important role.
the data for this study were obtained from survey responses collected from human resource or diversity officers of 51 large, publicly traded organi- zations.
the company compiled a list of the names and affiliations of everyone who had papers or other work accepted at three top academic machine learning conferences—nips, iclr, and icml—in 2017. the once obscure events now feature corporate parties and armies of corporate recruiters and researchers.
but the benefits associated with ai can only be achieved if the challenges surrounding it are also addressed.
those aimed at preventing access to sensitive technologies or data, should be designed to not cause incidental or intentional harm.
the progress made during this project is tremendously important, but it is just a first crucial step towards our vision of a world where long- term thinking is the norm, and organizations are empowered to create sustainable, inclusive growth.
if we can improve our suggestions and help connect one billion people with meaningful communities, that can strengthen our social fabric.
individual is not treated as an organizational insider in the work group but their unique characteristics are seen as valuable and required for group/ organization success.
the focus of this paper is on other social benefit uses of ai that do not require scientific breakthroughs but that add to existing efforts to help individuals or groups in both advanced and developing economies who are experiencing challenges or crises and who often live beyond the reach of traditional or commercial solutions.
in the face of automation, it’s more important than ever that we embrace and cultivate skills that are uniquely human — traits that robots are unlikely to replicate.
"the objective is to define a process model that defines how best to preform a qa orientated repeatable process regarding the use case and data model (including meta data) for data privacy oriented considerations regarding products, services and systems utilizing employee, customer or other personal data.
to the individual or community as a distinct moral or legal evaluation.
by combining patients’ data, a better understanding of disease can be developed.
in employing new technologies, both the public and the private sector will likely need to find new ways to protect human rights, as new challenges to equality and representation of diverse individuals and groups arise.
image classification and object detection are powerful capabilities with multiple applications for social good
who should decide, and according to what modalities, the norms and moral values determining this control?
but, as with any innovation that pushes us beyond current knowledge and experience, the advent of ai raises important questions about the relationship between people and technology, and the impact of new technology- driven capabilities on individuals and communities.
these data sets may contain highly confidential personal data that cannot be shared without being anonymized.
we then construct a counterfactual in which we attribute to women the same industry distribution as men, and compute the corresponding change in employment in each recession and compare it to the actual.
• “from consent to data control by design.” data ethics, march 20, 2017.
this is a key point regarding the work of this committee — rather than focus on the negative aspects of how a/is could harm humans, the implementation of uniform well-being metrics will help provably demonstrate how these technologies can have a positive influence on society.
without understanding the complex political landscapes and contested histories within which social problems are enmeshed, they run the risk of alienating affected communities” [17, p. 3].
indeed, satellite data can power ai applications across all ten of our domains.
any business that somehow is involved, or plan to be involved, with robotics & automation (r&a).
not only is the typical robotic voice gone, but google took extra steps to disguise the system to sound more like a human.
history shows that many new technologies have created misgivings, dating back at least to the 16th century with the invention of the stocking frame.12 as has happened in the past, all stakeholders, from civil society to ai researchers to government, will need to collaborate to define what is—and is not— acceptable, if the positive benefits that the technologies offer are to become a reality.
legal frameworks governing employment will need to be modernized to recognize new ways of working, provide adequate worker protections, and maintain the social safety net.
“it is also an attempt to show the canadian public the consensus that already exists in the business community.”
the principles for realizing this vision include collaboration, transparency, controllability, safety, security, privacy, ethics, user assistance, and accountability.
and the social safety net must be modernized to support workers and families, as well
human benefit is an important goal of a/is,
the rapid evolution of work could undermine worker protections and bene ts including unemployment insurance, workers’ compensation and, in the united states, the social security system.
in the united states, it’s a good bet that if your data doesn’t show a racial skew of some sort, you’ve done something wrong.
while being conscious to help people avoid withdrawal from society where the lack of human interaction could increase negative mental health, it is important for widespread testing of these systems to let these new realities (mr/ar/vr) be a tool for exploring interactions to increase positive mental health and well-being.
that estimate came from tallying the numbers of men and women who had contributed work at three top machine learning conferences in 2017. it suggests the group supposedly charting society’s future is even less inclusive than the broader tech industry, which has its own well-known diversity problems.
data science models used in the criminal justice sector have been criticized widely for their effects of reproducing so- cietal biases against minorities, cf.
un guiding principles for business and human rights (ohchr, 2011), also known as the
in every election around the world, we keep improving our tools to help more people register and vote, and we hope to eventually enable hundreds of millions of more people to vote in elections than do today, in every democratic country around the world.
finally, google took six months to make public that user data on its social network, google plus, had been exposed and that profiles of up to 500,000 users may have been compromised.
documenting these will help the business respond to possible future challenges from customers, competitors or regulators regarding the recommendations produced by this system.
(“real” meaning a physical or public space where the user is not aware of being under surveillance by facial recognition, biometric, or other tools that could track, store, and utilize their data without pre-established consent or permission).
• on 11 april 2017, ieee hosted a dinner debate at the european parliament in brussels to discuss how the world’s top metric of value (gross domestic product) must move beyond gdp to holistically measure how intelligent and autonomous systems can hinder or improve human well-being:
google can invent something like smart reply and have millions of people using it just a few months later.
the converse would hold for a trend decline in the labour force participation rate.
this discussion paper was drafted to guide the discussion during the breakout sessions at the december 6th, 2018, g7 multistakeholder conference on artificial intelligence in montreal, canada.
the selection was based on the duration of the initiative (at least two editions) and/or the backing by an important pro- fessional association (aaai) or an important inter- national actor (the un).
artificial intelligence (ai) is a field with a varied tradition, covering different aspects of intelligence, such as: representation of knowledge and reasoning, machine learning, natural language processing, vision and speech, robotics with sensing, control of movement and manipulation, planning and coordination.
allow workers to earn enough to build their own savings, they will rely more than ever on safety net programs like unemployment insurance, workers’ compensation and social security.
businesses have to build up the right muscles to asses machine learning uses cases, think about the risk that they can and cannot tolerate, and make difficult judgment calls.
● growing machine autonomy/declining human control and accountability:  automated decision-making has expanded steadily in recent decades, and developments in machine learning are accelerating that trend.
we need to know whether or not we can successfully design ai to be in any sense loyal to its masters.
but even more importantly, ai has the potential to help society overcome some of its most daunting challenges.
[13] r. de wolf, e. vanderhoven, b. berendt, j. pierson, t. schellens, self-reflection on privacy research in social networking sites.
sound detection and recognition could become increasingly relevant as auditory sensors are deployed for use cases across domains
early adopters in canada listed integrating ai into their company’s roles and functions, implementation challenges, and data issues as their top three challenges when deploying ai initiatives (see figure 9).
today, there are some people who might say that ethical principles and best practices are all that is needed as we move forward.
be fair, reliable and safe, private and secure, inclusive, transparent, and accountable.
demand for data scientists, robotics experts and ai engineers will increase signi cantly.
share outcomes of the pilot with all stakeholders and notify them when and how they will be held accountable for being able to demonstrate compliance with
a/is are at an early stage of development where it is premature to assert a single particular legal status or presumption for application in the many forms and settings in which those systems are
in the first case, the technology is not mature enough as for example, autonomous driving in heavy traffic conditions (in bad weather for example) or the detection of multiple pathologies on a patient whereby the analysis, collection and processing of data is complicated.
inclusive design practices will help system developers understand and address potential barriers in a product or environment that could unintentionally exclude people.
the business plans also focus on well-informed, transparent, and effective policy and decision making.
data in combination with the use of autonomous systems by employers is an increasing issue, where decisions made via aggregate algorithms directly impact employment prospects.
can a legal system designed by humans keep pace with activities produced by an ai capable of outthinking and potentially outmaneuvering them?
where data sets are freely available, moreover, the data may not have suf ciently large volume for deep learning, which will restrict application of these capabilities—although with advances in transfer learning and pretrained models, some capabilities may not need data volumes as large as would previously have been the case.
bank, private equity, venture funds) to invest in ai projects, with appropriate mechanisms to minimize risk.
because the traps also gather data on environmental conditions when an insect is collected, the test provided useful data not only about pathogens in the environment but also about mosquito behavior.
she is the author of  technology and the virtues: a philosophical guide to a future worth wanting  (2016, oxford university press) and a forthcoming book,  the ai mirror: rebuilding humanity in an age of machine thinking.
mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 23
in developing ai systems, microsoft is drawing upon graphs of information that include knowledge about the world, about work and about people.
there are some groups for whom collecting data on discrimination poses particular difficulty, however, protections must extend to those groups as well.
similarly, the investment community must also consider the impact that their activity has on society.
b, association between the preference for sparing the lawful and each of rule of law (n = 122) and log gdp per capita (pc) (inset; n = 110).
from those principles were elaborated some recommendations the purpose of which is to suggest guidelines to accomplish the digital transition within the declaration’s ethical framework.
to be able to contribute in a positive, non-dogmatic way, we, the techno-scientific communities, need to enhance our self-reflection, we need to have an open and honest debate around our imaginary, our sets of explicit or implicit values, our institutions, symbols and representations.
one of the biggest risks is that ai’s tools and techniques can be misused by authorities and others with access to them; malicious uses can harm individuals, organizations, and society at large.48 ai can be used maliciously to threaten the physical and emotional safety of individuals, as well as their digital safety,  nancial security, and equity and fair treatment.
computer vision capabilities such as person identi cation, face detection, and emotion recognition are relevant only in select domains and use cases, including for crisis response, security, equality, and education—but where they are relevant, their impact is great.
“the impact of algorithms on judicial discretion: evidence from regression discontinuities.” workingpaper.
p7006 –standard on personal data ai agent working group
of new personal data regulation.
“reinforcing ethical decision making through corporate culture.” journal of business ethics 16, no.
• australia: in addition to strict privacy regulation, the australian productivity commission issued reports in 2016 and 2017 acknowledging that personal information is a personal asset and therefore recognized the need for australians to have control with respect to its collection and
this would re-define the security services’ investigative methods to pre-internet approaches wherein individuals would be able to control their information while providing custody to corporate entities under defined and transparent policies.
everybody in manufacturing, investment, entrepreneurship, research, consultancy, investment and media seems to be paying is paying attention to technology and the impacts it will have in business and life.
a fundamental need is that people have the right to define access and provide informed consent with respect to the use of their personal digital data.
no commitment to grant licenses under patent rights on a reasonable or non-discriminatory basis has been sought or received from any rights holder.
does the development of ai put critical thinking at risk?
companies such as creditvidya, zestfinance, and lenddo capture alternative data by device, browser, and social media  ngerprinting to generate a predictive model of creditworthiness.
attendees discussed the strong american r&d ecosystem, and the u.s.‘s free market approach to scientific discovery that harnesses the combined strengths of government, industry, and academia.
although macleod has extended benefit payments until the end of march, davala said participants are still being shortchanged and should receive the stipend for the promised three years.
• create criteria for committees to vote on all “candidate recommendations” becoming “recommendations” based on the general principles of ethically aligned design that are
if you know anything at all about the politics of the united states, you can answer that question immediately: “the black one!” black people are tremendously more likely to be stopped, arrested, convicted, and given long sentences for identical crimes than white people, so an ml model which looked at the data and, ignoring absolutely everything else, always predicted that a black defendant is more likely to be convicted of another crime in the future, would in fact be predicting quite accurately.
in sum, the fair treatment of groups and individuals associated with inclusion should facilitate the development of feelings of obligation and trust, which encourage the reciprocation of inclusive treatment to the work group and supervisor in the form of organizational citizenship behaviors, organi- zational commitment, and work performance.
if some vital piece of information is only available via ar, or only available to a particular ar sandbox, some people will inevitably be locked out of that information (of course, this criticism could apply to any communications technology, so the solution may be opportunities for public access [e.g., libraries] rather than design).
with meaningful human control.
likewise, recent research on diversity and leadership suggests the importance of considering the different approaches and styles of leadership that are reflected among diverse people and how these different ways of leading can create inclu- sion experiences for followers (ayman & korabik, 2010; cheung & halpern, 2010; chin, 2010; sanchez-hucles & davis, 2010).
ieee is not responsible for identifying patent rights for which a license may be required, or for conducting inquiries into the legal validity or scope of patents claims.
ubiquitous recording will challenge expectations of privacy both in public and private spaces.
“a code of ethics for the human-robot interaction profession.” proceedings of we robot, april 4, 2014.
while ethical and philosophical theories should not be over-simplified for popular consumption, being able to adequately translate the essence of the rich history of ethics traditions will go a long way in supporting a constructive dialogue on ethics and a/is.
surveys to see if the extra money helps improve health, housing and employment outcomes have also been scrapped.
to take into account the issue of vulnerable people, and try to work out an a/is that alleviates their helpless situation to prevent possible damage caused by misuse of their personal data.
● new ‘digital taylorism’:  new digital forms of ‘scientific management’ and control of workplace behavior, in ways that can be dehumanizing, demoralizing, and destructive to the mental and physical health of workers
this is due partially to their relatively lower power in the top management team but also to the greater recognition of their unique human capital in the marketplace (krishnan, 2009).
4) ais must avoid using acquired data to lock individuals into a user proﬁle, ﬁx their personal identity, or conﬁne them to a ﬁltering bubble, which would restrict and conﬁne their possibilities for personal development — especially in ﬁelds such as education, justice, or business.
7. promote international harmonization of national legislations related to liability in the context of a/is design and operation (through bi- or multilateral agreements) to enhance interoperability, and facilitate transnational dispute resolution.
implementing aias will help public agencies achieve four key policy goals
o’neill didn’t suggest facebook was behind the meme and proposed a third-party invested in facial recognition data could have introduced the social media challenge.
the risk of catastrophic misinterpretation of new developments is enormous, and reducing the risk of ai-opposition to be used as a political tool is crucial.
at the individual level, for example,  nding an ai-powered solution that uses smartphones will be of little use to people who do not have them.
as big data for development (agriculture, medical tele-diagnosis), geographic information systems (disaster prevention, emergency planning), and control systems (naturalizing intelligent cities through energy and traffic control, management of urban agriculture).
avoiding negative unintended consequences and increasing value for customers and society (today measured largely by gross domestic product (gdp), profit, or consumption levels) are often the only indicators utilized
given the emergent nature of the dssg phenomenon, it is our contention that how these questions come to be answered will have profound implications for the way society is organized and governed.
similarly, the b-corporation movement has created a unique legal status for “a new type of company that uses the power of business to solve social and environmental problems.” focusing on increasing “stakeholder” value versus just shareholder returns, forward-thinking b-corps are building trust and defining their brands by provably aligning their efforts to holistic metrics of well-being.
public and social sector management
9. trained ai model proved value on the ground: ;
1. designers should consider adopting an identity tag standard — that is, no a/is agent should be released without an identity tag to maintain a clear line of legal accountability.
this is textbook privacy viola on by data (more accurately in the eu con- text: a viola on of data protec on law), and therefore, data protec on / ethics boards in eu universi es strongly dis- courage the use of this dataset for any kind of data mining.
executive summary ................................................................................................................................................................. 3 summary of actions ............................................................................................................................................................ 4 introduction ............................................................................................................................................................................ 5 data as an asset....................................................................................................................................................................... 6 enterprise data analytics......................................................................................................................................................... 7 business drivers....................................................................................................................................................................... 8 strategic alignment ............................................................................................................................................................... 10 goa enterprise data analytics framework ............................................................................................................................ 12 guiding principles ............................................................................................................................................................. 13 governance............................................................................................................................................................................ 14 enterprise data analytics governance model .................................................................................................................. 15 enterprise data management........................................................................................................................................... 15 people ................................................................................................................................................................................... 16 process .................................................................................................................................................................................. 17 technology ............................................................................................................................................................................ 18 measuring success ................................................................................................................................................................ 19 enterprise data analytics maturity model ....................................................................................................................... 19 assessing risk.........................................................................................................................................................................21 appendix one: conceptual architecture ................................................................................................................................ 23 appendix two: case studies and opportunities ..................................................................................................................... 24 appendix three: governance model- roles and responsibilities............................................................................................ 25 appendix four: roadmap ....................................................................................................................................................... 26 connect ................................................................................................................................................................................. 27 selected bibliography............................................................................................................................................................28
guided by these principles, the united states federal trade commission (ftc) began fashioning a body of privacy case law to prevent unfair or deceptive practices affecting commerce.
(while the current article focuses on ethics codes, i will make some ref- erences to the gdpr as an example of a current and wide-ranging attempt to codify rules for technology, including ai, to protect individuals’ rights and free- doms.)
36% of canadians think they will be using them within the next five years for work life
•	edward santow (australia), australian human rights commissioner
in these pro jects, multidisciplinary consortia (of which ai was only one partner) investigated pri- vacy in online social networks and diversity in media, respectively.
9 filippo raso et al., arti cial intelligence and human rights: opportunities and risks, berkman klein center for internet and society at harvard university, september 25, 2018, https:// cyber.harvard.edu/sites/default/ les/2018-09/2018-09_aihumanrightssmall.pdf.
in america during the 19th century the amount of coarse cloth a single weaver could produce in an hour increased by a factor of 50, and the amount of labour required per yard of cloth fell by 98%.
specific information must be provided at or near the point (or time) of initial data collection to provide individuals with the knowledge to gauge potential privacy risks in the long-term.
• human rights: ensure they do not infringe on internationally recognized human rights
burdens falling unfairly on particular subgroups of society.
3. agencies should provide notice to the public disclosing their de nition of “automated decision system,” existing and proposed systems, and any related self-assessments and researcher review processes before the system has been acquired;
one thousand twenty surveys were mailed to conference attendees of a national diversity conference held to provide organizational executives with the opportunity to share practical business experiences with managing di- versity.
one use case, based on work by affectiva, which was spun out of the mit media lab, and autism glass, a stanford research project, involves use of ai to automate emotion recognition and provide social cues to help individuals along the autism spectrum interact in social environments.10 another example is the creation of an alternative identification verification system for individuals without traditional forms of id, such as driver’s licenses.
they can significantly alter institutions and institutional relationships toward more human-centric structures and they can benefit humanitarian and development issues resulting in increased individual and societal well-being.
the frequency at which these dilemmas will emerge is extremely hard to estimate, just as it is extremely hard to estimate the rate at which human drivers find themselves in comparable situations.
construction of ai and its deployment will be continuous processes, with humans involved and to some extent responsible at every step.
whether we will have the ability to keep our consciousness alive via software or create an avatar copy of ourselves or loved ones, there is the very real possibility we will see a person’s representation after death as we know it.
artificial intelligence (ai) is “the ability of a dig- ital computer or computer-controlled robot to per- form tasks commonly associated with intelligent be- ings.
in june 2018, the german parliament has installed a new commission for ai jointly staffed with members of the parliament and ai experts to investigate how ai decision making will affect society.
that a commander has meaningful human control over direct attacks during the conduct of hostilities.
ai models hold a mirror up to us; they don’t understand when we really don’t want honesty.
between mobility and several other factors, like crime, elementary-school test scores or the percentage of two-parent families in a community.”12 by enabling the implementation of cheap and efficient on-demand transportation services, ai will help millions of low-income people save time and money to go to work or
the 1996 calibration adjusts for changes in the composition of the female labour force by education, as well as changes in the skill premium and separation rates that occurred between 1978 and 1996. in addition, it targets female and male labour force participation rates, while unemployment rates by gender are determined endogenously.
that ensures that the technologies have been independently assessed as being safe and ethically sound.
like other emerging technologies, ar/vr will force society to rethink notions of privacy in public and may require new laws or regulations regarding data ownership in these environments.
along with an increased awareness of how incorporating sustainability measures beyond compliance can benefit the positive association with an organization’s brand in the public sphere, by prioritizing the increase of holistic well-being, companies are also recognizing where they can save or make money and increase innovation in the process.
• the process then allows engineers to better understand their assumptions and adjust their intentions and design processes accordingly.
outcome: empower and establish a culture of innovation and collaboration in the public service.
companies such as creditvidya, zestfinance, and lenddo capture alternative data by device, browser, and social media fingerprinting to generate a predictive model of creditworthiness.
internal oversight and guidance – microsoft’s ai and ethics in engineering and research (aether) committee
• responsibility: the rights-based approach shall identify the right holders and the duty bearers, and ensure that duty bearers have an obligation to realize all human rights; this should guide the policy development and implementation of a/is.
submission to the university of chicago’s data science for social good conference september 28-29, 2017
this declaration focuses on the rights to equality and non-discrimination, critical principles underpinning all human rights.
ultimately, large fleets of drones could be entirely self-piloting 99% of the time, calling in a human only when they needed to make an important decision.
advocacy groups and public interest organizations
presentation at the ai for good global summit 2018, geneva, may 15-17, 2018, https://www.itu.int/en/itu- t/ai/2018/documents/presentations/ ingmar%20weber.pdf
the taxi rides represent a typical case of personal data in the sense of the gdpr.
in this article, the authors first use brewer’s optimal distinctiveness theory to develop a definition of employee inclusion in the work group as involving the satisfaction of the needs of both belongingness and uniqueness.
[1] knowledge, as there still aren’t actually that many real-deal machine learning researchers in the world (despite the startling growth in paper submissions to conferences like nips), people who get excited by linear algebra in high- dimension spaces (the backbone of deep learning) or the patient cataloguing of assumptions required to justify a jump from observation to inference.
q7: sharing of approaches: how can g7 members support the circulation of use cases for beneficial deployment of ai methods and technologies?
it also founded the institute for ethical ai in education, which will investigate how data and ai can be designed and deployed ethically within that sector.
use of a/is does not infringe upon human rights, freedoms, dignity, and privacy, and of traceability to contribute to the building
distribution of well-being and harm inevitably creates tradeoffs, whose resolution falls in the moral domain1,2,3.
improving data accessibility for social impact cases will require active participation of data collectors and generators
“we need a human-in-command approach to ai, where machines remain machines and people retain control over these machines at all times,” said rapporteur catelijne muller (nl – workers’ group).
in a globalizing society, one part of the world has a direct impact on another.
stigmas are “attributes, characteristics, or experiences that convey an identity that is devalued in some social settings,” and choosing to keep them private has the potential to “take a toll on these individuals through psycho- logical strain, emotional stress, and stress-related illnesses” (ragins, 2008: 194).
from new interfaces like voice or biometrics to automated tagging, profiling and process execution, ai ushers in a universe of new questions and liabilities which have little legal precedent.
very little research, if any at all, has been conducted in light of ubuntu ethics and a/is, but its focus will be within the following moral domains:
we also explore the need to rethink protections for workers and social safety net programs in a time when the relationship between workers and employers is undergoing rapid change.
the organizers of nips are now working on a more detailed code of conduct for the event, which takes place in montreal this december.
in a test against three expert human radiologists working together, enlitic’s system was 50% better at classifying malignant tumours and had a false-negative rate (where a cancer is missed) of zero, compared with 7% for the humans.
of concern for understanding the relationship between human beings and a/is is the uncritically applied anthropomorphistic approach toward a/is that many industry and policy makers are using today.
so a big, open question in dssg cross-sector collaborations is how to balance the value of experimentation and the accompanying tolerance of failure with the value of tangible results and accountability?
over the course of the next year, every organization can be well on its way to leveraging these 12 universal principles to develop a custom-tailored code of data ethics.
though the prospect of walking into a courtroom and being confronted by a robot judge remains the stuff of science fiction, we have entered an era in which informed commentators confidently predict that the foreseeable future will include autonomous artificial intelligences passing bar exams, getting licensed to practice law and, in the words of matthew and jean-gabriel castel in their  2016 article “the impact of artificial intelligence on canadian law and the legal profession,” “perform[ing] most of the routine or ‘dull’ work done by justices of the peace, small claims courts and administrative boards and tribunals.” hundreds of thousands of canadians are affected by such work every year.
what would be the impact on history of self-learning machines—machines that acquired knowledge by processes particular to themselves, and applied that knowledge to ends for which there may be no category of human understanding?
and undoubtedly other important questions will need to be addressed regarding societally acceptable uses for ai.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 9
the honorable jean-yves duclos, minister of families, children and social development: today, i’m in montreal, at the meeting of g7 employment and innovation ministers.
i do not have the answers to these questions right now, but my goal is to bring more awareness to this topic, along with simple common sense, and work toward a solution.
as digital transformations have become a standard evolutionary path for businesses, governments and laws have largely failed to keep up with the pace of digital innovation and existing regulations are often mis-calibrated to present risks.
we can reframe the issue as an inquiry into what people look for from judicial decision-making processes.
these are not theoretical concepts; they are concrete standards that will actively govern our research and product development and will impact our business decisions.
as the amount of data generated by the government of alberta (goa) continues to grow, the importance of leveraging the collected data to improve goa-wide capabilities becomes critical.
for this reason, we use the term, autonomous and intelligent systems (or a/is) in the course of our work.
this could involve fields including emotional intelligence or positive psychology.
the aia process includes the opportunity for the public to engage with the agency over
a notable exception is the work of mor barak, whose research is primarily in the social work field.
 transportation - ai and machine learning are making significant inroads into how the u.s. transportation system functions, powering not only systems that allow automated vehicles and drones to observe and move through their environment, but also systems that can enable more effective management of transportation networks.
if we are to ensure that ai technologies bene t and empower everyone, they must incorporate and address a broad range of human needs and experiences.
due to the complexity and intersectionality of issues related to ai and accountability, it will be critical that inclusive opportunities are created for diverse stakeholder groups to come together to move this work forward for the benefit of people worldwide.
of individuals regarding privacy and personal data in the realms of a/is is of paramount importance today.
those programs can be private (sponsored by the employer) or public (offered freely through specific public channels and policies), and they should be open while the worker is in- between jobs or still employed.
in a fast-paced and technology intensive world, that will depend on their capacity to put in place institutions and governance solutions to leverage the positive impacts and minimize the downside of technology disruption.
at the time of the launch, the declaration prepared by amnesty international and access now and it has been endorsed by human rights watch and wikimedia foundation.
for this narrow set of tasks, computers do very poorly, not because they do worse at them than they do at similar tasks, but because we’re intuitively so good at them that our baseline for what constitutes “acceptable performance” is very high.
with a focus on rights and dignity of the populations served, practitioners and agencies have advocated for more data sharing and open data in the social good sector.
in june 2018, the european commission appointed the high-level expert group on ai (ai hleg) to examine ai-related opportunities and challenges in europe and make policy, legislative and strategic recommendations.
“approaches to organizational culture and ethics.” journal of business ethics 12, no.
ar/vr could be valuable in k-12 classrooms for immersion and interactivity with subject material at all different age levels.
ai amplifying human ingenuity 135
the description of the track provides helpful specifics demonstrating the direct alignment between the work of this committee and the a/is community at large:
• to the extent that systems contain adaptive or learning algorithms, any critical decision made by systems based upon those algorithms should be transparent and explainable by the designing engineers.
this domain focuses on security, policing, and criminal justice issues as a unique category adjacent to public-sector management.
increasingly, the technology industry needs to engage to change the perception that it reaps the bene ts of technology progress at the expense of workers who are displaced or left without protections, bene ts or long-term career paths.
10) value alignment: highly autonomous ai systems should be designed so that their goals and behaviors can be assured to align with human values throughout their operation.
agencies should be required to publish their de nition at least once, even if they do not believe they have any “automated decision systems,” so that the public can evaluate the de nition to see if it is reasonable.
such as an approach to determine if it’s possible to use an algorithm or model that is easier to understand in place of one that is more complex and dif cult to explain.
companies need to ensure that their understanding of value-based system innovation is based on de jure and de facto international human rights standards.
changes to scope, schedule and cost are controlled at the appropriate levels.
there is a new buzzword afoot in the discussion of machine learning: the “right to explanation.” the idea is that, if ml is being used to make decisions of any significance at all, people have a right to understand how those decisions were made.
 while the free market may eventually arrive at an equilibrium of accountable ai, the transition period has the possibility of non-trivial harms, making a case for government involvement.
is already starting to happen in some areas, and new business models are being tested that may facilitate data sharing.
if users divulge personal or identifying data, we should have clear assurances that their virtual
openness and transparency could be ideal principles to guide the development of intelligent mixed reality in a way that would alleviate much understandable wariness.
building on that work, the conference has introduced draft ai utilization principles26, which puts forward principles through the three pillars of promoting benefits, mitigating harms, and building trust:
these innovations vastly improved the quality of life and economic prospects for society.
of human rights and ensured that the most crucial human values and legal standards of human rights are respected by a/is technologists.
how can we update our legal systems to be more fair and efficient, to keep pace with ai, and to manage the risks associated with ai?
• malle, b. f. “integrating robot ethics and machine morality: the study and design of moral competence in robots.” ethics and information technology 18, no.
[10] m. jaede, the concept of the common good.
25“we must use critical thought to distinguish what is ethical from what is lawful and to consider what it means to be a professional.
data collectors and generators will need to be encouraged, and possibly mandated, to open access to a subset of their data when it could be in the clear public interest.
it behooves the various public and private stakeholders and policymakers at the local, national and international level to ensure the development and rollout of artiﬁcial intelligence are compatible with the protection of fundamental human skills and aims for their full development.
progress now requires humanity coming together not just as cities or nations, but also as a global community.
in a social impact domain identified, with measurable objective and requirements for success.
ai presents many wonderful opportunities, but we must also address important concerns.
the partners we worked with were initially wary of the whole idea, and with good cause.
substantive conceptions specify what factors, goods, values, etc.
that is, individuals have a right to request information explaining the algorithmic logic used to render a decision when a system uses their personal data.
where technologists may be unaware of how systems could negatively impact human well- being, by increasing awareness of common indicators and their designed intent, they can avoid harm while increasing benefit.
(this is because only a few kinds of ml model, like decision trees, are at all comprehensible by people, while the models most useful in many real applications, like neural nets, decidedly are not.)
the difficulty of generating a set of universal norms is not inconsistent with the goal of seeking agreement over universal human rights (see “general principles” section).
this is where it becomes important we understand the big picture view: multiple factors compound, not negate.
like the vast majority of the people of nepal, she comes from a family of subsistence farmers who raise cows, goats and water buffalo.
to understand the impact of a/is on society, it is necessary to consider both product and process innovation as well as wider implications from a global perspective.
deep learning seems promising in relation to the creation of systems that combine perception with abstract reasoning capabilities, since it allows the development of end- to-end applications, able to perform complete tasks that were once divided into simpler tasks.
to date, there does not exist a definitive well- being metric that encompasses every aspect of individual and societal well-being that could serve as a common metric like the gdp for all a/is manufacturers.
the demand for enterprise data analytics arises from the government’s desire to understand and address matters that cross department boundaries.
research.” this gives the false perception that deepmind has cracked the ultimate challenge in a.i.
funding will be required from governments and foundations for initiatives to record and store data that could be used for social ends.
turning these challenges into a positive recommen- dation, the concluding section 6 will draw on another characteristic of computer-science thinking and prac- tice to make the impediments visible and attenuate them: “attacks” as a method for improving design.
“a competitive business advantage that we build and maintain by leveraging the aware- ness, understanding, and appreciation of differences in the workplace to enable individ- uals, teams, and businesses to perform at their full potential.”
are moral and ethical boundaries crossed when the design of affective systems allows them to develop intimate relationships with their users?
examples of use cases with high potential usage frequency include using ai on satellite data to map and predict wildfire progression to optimize firefighter response.
tech- nically a ships’ trajectory could be con- sidered personal data in the same sense as a taxi’s trajectory.
 increased transparency and trust in goa decision making;
copeland, artificial intelligence,
artiﬁcial intelligence represents a major scientiﬁc and technological progress, which can generate considerable social beneﬁts by improving living conditions, health and justice, by creating wealth, by reinforcing public safety or by mastering the impact of human activities on the environment and the climate.
companies with no semblance of these standards may not only deal with trust issues from consumers, they may have to make more costly updates to robust ai systems that weren’t built with transparency and standards in mind.
research conducted by qualified mental health experts is required in this area to determine how people can best approach immersion in new realities in ways they can control or mediate should potential negative or triggering situations take place.
today, business leaders have the opportunity to play a signi cant role in reshaping employment policy for the emerging economy by setting their own standards for on-demand engagements.
industry processes should be developed and implemented for the following: tracking relevant information about customer data (such as when
across government the costs associated with individual approaches is substantial and not the optimal investment of taxpayer dollars.
ai’s don’t get bored or distracted: a model can keep making decisions over different pieces of data, millions or billions of times in a row, and not get any worse (or better) at it.
ai can serve as a catalyst for progress in almost every area of human endeavor.
further, i will argue why the arguments put forward here are characteristic of and relevant for ai and for the goal of enhancing the common good, but not restricted to the field or the goal.
as ai still requires enormous resources, democratizing it may have to go through the development of methods that are as energy-efficient as the human brain – a few dozens of watts versus the megawatts of present-day computer farms – learning from smaller data and requiring less operations per data sample.
this proposal recommends protecting personal privacy by entrenching the concept of a registered, protected personal profile into our legal and ethical system.
the very general term “ai” will be used to denote research and projects that involve the pro- cessing and analysis of knowledge and data, often with machine learning / data mining methods.
personal privacy a/is tools such as ieee p7006tm have the potential to change the data paradigm and put the generators of personal information
for crisis response, education, and health and hunger, we find many ai capabilities that can be deployed because their use cases require a wide variety of types of data input, and most use only one type of unstructured data.
on autonomic computing and human autonomy,” in the philosophy of law meets the philosophy of technology: autonomic computing and transformations of human agency, edited by.
we aspire to high standards of scientific excellence as we work to progress ai development.
rather than rushing through deliberations and pressing team members (who were working on a short 10-week timeline) to produce a tangible outcome, the team’s leadership valued the time spent in lengthy discussions among themselves and with stakeholder groups.
an underlying theme in my conversations with global ceos and senior business executives is that the acceleration of innovation and the velocity of disruption are hard to comprehend or anticipate and that these drivers constitute a source of constant surprise, even for the best connected and most well informed.
above, i have argued that the transformation of a so- cial problem into a formal problem poses challenges when the goal is to contribute to the common good.
a well-crafted law to protect whistleblowers and to allow a public interest cause of action would improve accountability and aid in prevention of intentional misuse of a/is.
fears, misinformation) about ai prevent us from trusting it, potentially depriving us of the benefits it might produce.
creating the digital version of the gated community will happen naturally — they are both designed systems.
another key, and potentially more controversial, issue to be addressed is whether an affective system should be designed to nudge a user, and potentially intrude on individual liberty, when doing so may benefit someone else.
behind its sms and internet-based interface, predictive algorithms leverage several ai capabilities to analyze social and telecom data and assess creditworthiness.
and the emergence of global platforms and other new business models, finally, means that talent, culture, and organizational forms will have to be rethought.
what would widespread use of such technology have on individuals, society, and politics over the long term?
42 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
for example, are the often-discussed filter bubbles, fake news, and po- tential manipulation problems a consequence of the ai deployed in social media, or of the way online so- cial networks are connected and information is spread over the internet?
while the project is still in its early stages, it may well point the way toward an effective early warning system that will detect some of the world’s most dangerous diseases in the environment and help prevent deadly outbreaks.
as people now have easy access to robust consumer-facing technology products (versus depending on their employers for these formerly costly devices and services), they’re able to gain quicker fluency with new technologies.
data security must be a key consideration and is related to people’s ability to collaborate.
 investing in fundamental ai r&d, computing infrastructure, autonomous systems, and machine learning.
1 we recognize that the line of demarcation between arti cial intelligence capabilities and other analytical capabilities is not universally shared, with different people holding different de nitions, over time.
create an ai impact assessment, including:
finally, the declining cost and growing disposability of digital devices is causing an explosion in non-biodegradable and sometimes toxic ‘e-waste,’ much of which is shipped off to poorer countries for unsafe disposal.
these revelations will undoubtedly force the company to evolve their data sharing and protection strategy and policy.
• bhattacharyya, d. “being, river: the law, the person and the unthinkable.” humanities and social sciences online, april 26, 2017.
to ensure autonomous and intelligent systems (a/is) are aligned to benefit humanity a/is research and design must be underpinned by ethical and legal norms as well as methods.
we aspire to high standards of scientilc excellence as we work to progress ai development.
leaving aside the one entirely random dilemma, there are two dilemmas within each session that focus on each of six dimensions of moral preferences: character gender, character age, character physical fitness, character social status, character species, and character number.
the b-corporation movement has even created a new legal status for “a new type of company that uses the power of business to solve social and environmental problems.” focusing on increasing “stakeholder” value versus shareholder returns alone, forward-thinking b-corps are building trust and defining their brands by provably aligning their efforts to holistic metrics of well-being.
acm code of ethics and professional conduct.
level marketers, ethicists, or lawyers who can pragmatically implement ethically aligned design, both the technology and the social processes to support value-based system innovation.
the growth of ai could have highly positive impacts in all sectors, but even well designed ai tools will have negative effects that must be mitigated to ensure the long-
transparency in code and auditing of algorithmic outputs will not guarantee success.
and, if the person was bad at the job, of course, it could drag the whole thing down.
as a negotiator, the guardian could negotiate conditions for sharing data and could include payment to the user as a term, or even retract consent for the use of data previously authorized, for instance
this example, legal issues that are applied in similar “chain of causation” settings (such as “foreseeability,” “complicity,” “reasonable care,” “strict liability” for unreasonably dangerous goods, and other precedential notions) will factor into the design process.
the widespread adoption of aws by nation states could present a unique risk to the stability of international security.
the intent here is to provide as many options as possible for a way forward for this principle.
our ai technologies will be subject to appropriate human direction and control.
consider, as a case in point, the ethical rules proposed in 2017 by the german ethics commission on automated and connected driving19.
reporting project (worp) - assess the performance of programs for which learners have received skills investment funding.
acm code of ethics and professional conduct [3]: “1.1 contribute to society and human well- being.
data privacy will need to be protected to prevent sensitive personal information from being made public and to comply with the law, and ai applications will need to be safe for human use.
first and foremost, the phenomenon is not affecting a single sector as in the past, but it seems to impact all service and production sectors.
that means businesses that take advantage of ai have an automatic responsibility to their customers to use their data appropriately.
for example, in the retail sector, ai may lead to further worker’s specialization, in order to provide the customer with up-to-the-minute expertise and, simultaneously, to a more general set of skills to refer customers to the right specialist.
if you’ve been reading carefully so far, you may have spotted a few ways this could go horribly, terribly, wrong.
of a/is ethics involves the need to understand cultural aspects of the systems and services an organization wishes to create for specific users.
it is especially challenging to teach computers to truly understand not just what words were spoken, but what the words mean and to reason by drawing conclusions and making decisions based on them.
sap ceo bill mcdermott is similarly optimistic, and sees “nothing to be gained from fearing a dystopian future that we have the power to prevent.” rather than rendering humans obsolete, mcdermott believes that ai applications could liberate millions of people from “the dangerous and repetitive tasks often associated with manual labor.” and he points to the introduction of “collaborative robots” to show that “partnership, not rivalry” will define our future relationship with ai technologies across all sectors.
when individuals have an “undesirable” charac- teristic that is not readily apparent (an invisible stigma such as religion, disability, or sexual orientation; bell, ozbilgin, beauregard, & surgevil, in press; ragins, 2008), they have the choice as to whether or not to reveal their uniqueness and associated knowledge, experience, or perceptions.
7 see for example, kade crockford, “risk assessment tools in the criminal justice system: inaccurate, unfair, and unjust?,” aclu of massachusetts, march 8, 2018, https://privacysos.org/blog/risk-assessment-tools-criminal- justice-system-inaccurate-unfair-unjust; virginia eubanks, automating inequality: how high-tech tools pro le, police, and punish the poor, (new york: st. martin’s press, 2018); nazgol ghandnoosh, black lives matter: eliminating racial inequity in the criminal justice system (washington dc: the sentencing project, 2015), http:// sentencingproject.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/black-lives-matter.pdf; insha rahman, “the state of bail: a breakthrough year for bail reform,” vera institute of justice, 2017, https://www.vera.org/state-of-justice- reform/2017/bail-pretrial.
yet should affective systems be deployed to influence a user’s behavior for that person’s own good?
and we wish to respectfully recognize the formative precedents surrounding issues of ethics and safety and the professional values these codes represent.
fairness – ai systems should treat all people fairly.
case study 2: ais data for describing migrant rescue operations
of ri to address the notion of “responsible innovation” from value systems not predominant in western classical ethics, including nonliberal democratic perspectives.
in all these meanings, knowledge is structured informa- tion, useful and/or understandable to a person or ma- chine.
however, now that we use live to capture the news and we post videos to protest violence, our standards must adapt.
while these and other implementation challenges are not directly ai-related, they should not be overlooked when attempting to deploy ai for social good.
public finance management services to citizens
the vast majority of canadian respondents stated that both government and business have a responsibility to tackle the risks and challenges that ai poses to society, but just one in 10 thinks that either is well prepared for the task (see figure 7).
most relevant for the topic of implementation is the transparency of the software engineering process during implementation (cleland-huang, gotel, and zisman, 2012).
5) in accordance with the transparency requirement for public decisions, the code for decision-making algorithms usedby public authorities must be accessible to all, with the exception of algorithms that present a high risk of serious danger if misused.
while everyone deserves the social and economic bene ts of data, not everyone is equally impacted by the processes of data collection, correlation, and prediction.
it corresponds to an evolution where skills, organizations and workers make use of ai tools in order to improve efficiency, free themselves from arduous tasks and perform new tasks that were not possible before ai.
broadly speaking, current laws tend to recognize only two designations for workers: 1) employees who work on a regular basis in a formal relationship with an employer; or 2) independent contractors who provide goods or services under a speci ed contract.
we will give opportunity for notice and consent, encourage architectures with privacy safeguards, and provide appropriate transparency and control over the use of data.
• scherer, m. “who’s to blame (part 5): a deeper look at predicting the actions of autonomous weapons.” law and ai, february 29, 2016.
thirdly, it suggests a new paradigm in which individuals own loyal ai agents to help them keep up with the flood of demand for interactions involving that data.
although the results of the study demonstrated differential effects on inclu- sion based on type of demographic dissimilarity (e.g., gender, race, tenure, education) (pelled et al., 1999), the study’s findings provided support for decision-making influence, access to information, and job security as indica- tors of organizational inclusion.
computer vision capabilities such as person identification, face detection, and emotion recognition are relevant only in select domains and use cases, including for crisis response, security, equality, and education—but where they are relevant, their impact is great.
9. principle of transparency
because ai systems are data-driven, how they behave and the variety of conditions they can handle reliably and safely largely re ects the range of situations and circumstance that developers anticipate during design and testing.
minimally invasive access: private institutions, businesses, employers, government and other users of a citizen’s data must employ the least invasive feasible protocols for the handling of personal data.
as the physical, digital, and biological worlds continue to converge, new technologies and platforms will increasingly enable citizens to engage with governments, voice their opinions, coordinate their efforts, and even circumvent the supervision of public authorities.
these profiles would be online data structures that are the private property of the individual.
in the absence of ethics and restrictive regulations, i foresee early corporate ai and government ai benefiting to corporate and governments.
architecture and roadmap specifically developed in collaboration with irms informatics, office of statistics and information, human services, service alberta (enterprise architecture team).
2) in all areas where a decision that affects a person’s life, quality of life, or reputation must be made, where time and circumstance permit, the ﬁnal decision must be taken by a human being and that decision should be free and informed
and just as it's a bad experience to see objectionable content, it's also a terrible experience to be told we can't share something we feel is important.
cross-sector partnerships to address social issues: challenges to
the tool indicates that robots need to be assessed more thoroughly on their safe operations to better answer impact assessment, and that this is also a robot with very limited interaction with people.
based on ais data, complex events, in- cluding but not limited to sar (search and rescue) missions, and involving one or several vessels, can be modelled and detected e ciently and in real  me us- ing combina ons of exploratory, ma- chine learning, and logics-based (event calculus) techniques (patroumpas et al., 2017; varlamis, tserpes, & sardianos, 2018).
peter harrison, schroders group chief executive: “as a fundamental, active investor schroders recognizes that sustainability is the bedrock of strong, durable businesses and it therefore forms a key part of our understanding of the companies we invest in.
5) daas must guarantee data conﬁdentiality and personal proﬁle anonymity.
 promote fair and open data sets for model training.
 accelerating ai r&d through the use of public data sets.
at the same time, while 20 percent of the workforce has a high school graduation credential or less and is considered “low- skilled,” just 15 percent of jobs are open to people with this level of educational attainment.47 further, in a study of job postings by burning glass technologies, 8 out of 10 middle- skills jobs require basic digital literacy skills, something that more than half of workers today lack.
 artificial general intelligence still far away (though maybe not essential).
there is an increasingly pressing need to adapt these vital public policies to the world that is changing today.
promote research and development of “explainability” of algorithms to send signal to industrial users and support public acceptance and confidence.
for public use or to the solution builder.
the common good is a notion predating ai.
tom wilson, the allstate corporation chairman, president and ceo: “business serves four roles for society.
business leaders, policymakers, researchers, academics and representatives of nongovernmental groups must work together to ensure that ai-based technologies are designed and deployed in a manner that will earn the trust of the people who use them and the individuals whose data is being collected.
of safety-related research and tools, and that all those involved in the development and deployment take on the norm that future highly capable transformative a/is “should only be developed in the service of widely shared ethical ideals, and for the benefit
there lies a danger in uncritically attributing classical concepts of anthropomorphic autonomy to machines, including using the term artificial intelligence to describe them since, in the attempt to make them “moral” by programming moral rules into their behavior, we run the risk
this alternative model was made up of latent factors for fair treatment issues (factor 1), the representation of diverse groups among stakeholders (factor 2), top manage- ment’s support for diversity (factor 3), and employee participation and orga- nizational outcomes (factors 4 and 5).
the goal of this committee is that our recommendations, in conjunction with the development and release of these standards once adopted, will expedite the prioritization and inclusion of all global individuals in the data processes that directly relate to their identity.
“we define inclusion as seeking out, valuing, and using the knowledge and experiences of diverse employees for business benefit.”
after all, the purpose of any model — ai or mental — is to make decisions.
the aia process should give the public the opportunity to e ectively challenge the agency’s adoption of the system and prevent the system from being used when it fails to bene t a ected communities.30
working closely with governments and nonprofits, fellows take on real- world problems in education, health, energy, trans- portation, and more.”4 the first part of this defini- tion is strictly speaking not very specific, since many uses of ai have social impact, including large social networks, search engines, and (inter)national surveil-
55 katherine fink, “opening the government’s black boxes: freedom of information and algorithmic accountability, information,” communication & society (2017), https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/ pdf/10.1080/1369118x.2017.1330418.
a practical framework for public agency accountability
the idea that manual work can be carried out by machines is already familiar; now ever-smarter machines can perform tasks done by information workers, too.
• the user managed access standard, proposed by the kantara initiative, provides a useful model to address these types
ai systems, through their very operations, are in constant flux as they acquire and instantly analyze new data, then seek to improve themselves on the basis of that analysis.
we hope our conceptualization of inclusion, and our building on recent research on social identity, encourages researchers to delve further into the organizational mechanisms that can promote valuing unique qualities and knowledge associated with an individual’s diverse characteristics.
most consequential outcome was establishing institutional review boards (irbs) as an obligatory milestone for most academic research.
current research focuses on six themes: productivity and growth, natural resources, labor markets, the evolution of global  nancial markets, the economic impact of technology and innovation, and urbanization.
when reasoning about the impacts that agi systems will have, it is tempting to anthropomorphize, assume that these systems will have a “mind” similar to that of
throughout its new initiative the eu also aims to ensure that ai is developed and applied within an appropriate framework that promotes innovation but at the same time also protects european values and fundamental rights.
moreover, researchers and developers may be subject to cognitive biases that lead them to have an optimistic view of the benefits, dangers, and ethical concerns involved in their research.
it requires you to take 100 per cent control of your circumstances, particularly if you are responsible for a family, or other people in the form of a business.
i’m going to be sloppy here and not provide hyperlinks to specific podcasts or articles that endorse variations of this hierarchy of being: hopefully you’ve read a lot of these and will have sparks of recognition with my broad stroke picture painting.
a/is should be designed to interpret the data preferences, verbal or otherwise, of all users signaling limitations on collection and use, discussed further below.
although data can help citizens demand accounta- bility,ultimately,theinferencesthatcanbedrawn from the data are only as valuable as the actions they induce.
while specific uses of data must be taken in context of the regions where specific legislation applies, individuals should always be provided access to, and control of, their data to ensure their fundamental human rights are honored without fear of the risk of breaking applicable laws.
the agency did not understand the technical documentation describing how to install and run the tool, and the tool became unused “shelfware” once the agency’s contract with the private research group that devised the solution expired.
• that there be responsible human operators of autonomous systems who are clearly identifiable.
a/is and well-being experts should work directly with the business community to identify existing metrics or combinations of indicators that would bring the greatest value to businesses focused on the “triple bottom line” (accounting for economic, social, and environmental impacts) increase of human well-being.
but we can look to melisha’s device — a device that could help millions of small farmers in remote communities live more prosperously — to see one example of what can happen when human intelligence and imagination are augmented by the power of ai.
but enterprise users of on-demand labor also have an opportunity to contribute to broader solutions to these issues.
in artificial intelligence (ai), autonomous systems (as), and autonomous weapons systems (aws) stymie more substantive discussions about crucial issues.
the smart contract infrastructure would form the backbone of an ecosystem that supports all manner of social and commercial interactions.
a/is are already being executed in ways that could dramatically increase human well-being or, possibly, have an undue coercive effect on humans.
this is probably due to that other basic principle of the natural and engineering sciences: divide and conquer, that is, split problems into parts and address these separately.
attribute verification (comprising the use of empowered persona usage by an individual) will play a significant role in enabling individuals to select the identity that provides access without compromising agency.
accountability is about a clear acknowledgement and assumption of responsibility and “answerability” for actions, decisions, products and policies.
in line with this, the remainder of this article will focus on computer ethics / roboethics as human ethics in the sense described above.
within computer vision, the specific capabilities of image classification and object detection stand out for their potential applications for social good.
because technology is changing so rapidly, it’s not enough to just focus on educating tomorrow’s workforce; we must also help today’s workers gain skills that are relevant in the changing workplace.
11) human values: ai systems should be designed and operated so as to be compatible with ideals of human dignity, rights, freedoms, and cultural diversity.
many such systems operate as “black boxes” – opaque software tools working outside the scope of meaningful scrutiny and accountability.8 this is concerning, since an informed policy debate is impossible without the ability to understand which existing systems are being used, how they are employed, and whether these systems cause unintended
technically, in an extreme form where it significantly impairs social and occupational functioning, public speaking anxiety would qualify as a phobia and be diagnosed as an anxiety disorder.
a similar effort has been created by the world economic forum via their inclusive development index as outlined in their article, toward a human-centered model of economic growth.
 engage regulators to help identify opportunities for responsible regulation, for example to help coordinate industry responses where externalities result from algorithmic decision-making.
 q4: what are potential actions of g7 members to promote research and development of “explainability” of algorithms that will foster acceptance and confidence of industrial and private users?
judicial reasoning, healthcare, warfare, financial transactions), their potential impact is significant.
these principles are critical to addressing the societal impacts of ai and building trust as the technology becomes more and more a part of the products and services that people use at work and at home every day.
a second inspiration was that these same two questions have proved constructive in interdisciplinary collaboration around a specific common good interest and facility: “privacy” [13].
the possibility for a digitally networked intellectual capacity that imitates, matches, and supersedes human intellectual capacity, including, among other things, general skills, discovery, and computing function.
in addition to this social component, identity also contains a personal component that invo- lves defining oneself as an individual (brewer & gardner, 1996).
), proceedings of the second workshop on data science for social good co-located with euro- pean conference on machine learning and prin- ciples and practice of knowledge dicovery in databases (ecml-pkdd 2017), skopje, mace- donia, sep. 18, 2017, ceur workshop pro- ceedings vol-1960, http://ceur-ws.org/vol- 1960/
principle 5 — a/is technology misuse and awareness of it
some are only partially autonomous (acting under human command) while others are completely autonomous within their area of action.
meanwhile, at the highest levels of government, investment in cross-sector partnerships related to data science for social good is thought to spur innovation.
2. agencies should develop meaningful external researcher review processes to discover, measure, or track impacts over time;
safety check has been activated almost 500 times in two years and has already notified people that their families and friends are safe more than a billion times.
for computer scientists and engineers, distributes an ethics code for members of its organization.11 however, that code was adopted
arti cial intelligence and its role in society
third, dssg teams need to view social issues from multiple perspectives, realizing that different communities and interest groups have uniquely positioned, highly localized, and sometimes conflicting, stakes in the way social problems are portrayed and addressed.
as jobs increasingly require technology skills, companies compete for the employees who have specialized skills supporting digital capabilities such as robotics, augmented reality computations, cybersecurity and data science.
10 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
• prioritizing human well-being in the age of artificial intelligence (report)
be used to implement an ideal moral framework for a machine, yet they are not viable for real world tasks.
although these are ethical principles, they can be translated into political language and interpreted in legal fashion.
substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this work, even if advised of the possibility of such damage and regardless of whether such damage was foreseeable.
some experiments suggest that ai can diagnose skin cancer with greater accuracy than human dermatologists; in a pilot, ai classi cation of skin lesions as melanomas versus benign beat classi cation by 58 dermatologists.
shannon vallor is a faculty scholar at the markkula center for applied ethics and the regis and dianne mckenna professor of philosophy at scu, where she has taught the ethics of emerging technologies and philosophy of science and technology since 2003. she is the past president of the international society for philosophy and technology and serves on the executive leadership team of the non-profit foundation for responsible robotics.
watching video of our favorite sports team or tv show, reading our favorite newspaper, or playing our favorite game are not just entertainment or information but a shared experience and opportunity to bring together people who care about the same things.
in order to support the members of the european parliament in their anticipation of possible future concerns regarding developments in cps, robotics and artificial intelligence, the science and technology options assessment (stoa) panel has committed a foresight study entitled ‘ethical aspects of cps’.
while technology visionaries contend that new markets with new job opportunities have emerged and that developing countries will benefit economically, “many people in the united states suspect that technology will not deliver widespread financial security, nor will it be a panacea for the world’s underprivileged,” mcclure said.
lack of transparency about the a/is manufacturing process presents a challenge to ethical implementation and oversight.
for the first time in human history, innovation is taking away net jobs and technology is competing with humans for work.
inundated via social media with the opinions of multitudes, users are diverted from introspection; in truth many technophiles use the internet to avoid the solitude they dread.
one way that organizations have put differentiation into practice is through free agency, whereby organizations purchase the services of highly talented and unique people to solve organizational problems, but without making permanent employment offers (riley & buckley, 2008).
to the nature of human being as well.
work groups adopting this perspective acknowledged the value of diversity as a way of reaching particular markets, but minority members were not considered to be part of the larger culture of the organization and were subject to isolation and race-based stereotypes (ely & thomas, 2001).
“engineering and the problem of moral overload.” science and engineering ethics 18, no.
“anticipating the individual and social outcomes is a matter worth pursuing,” he said.
while artificial intelligence (ai) and algorithm-assisted automated decision-making could play a role in ameliorating the crisis, the contemporary consensus holds that the risks posed by ai mean its use in the justice system should be curtailed.
in her view, we could be heading for a “‘good-jobless future,’ in which a growing number of workers can no longer earn a middle-class income, regardless of their education and skills.” to minimize that risk, she calls on policymakers in advanced economies to “focus on measures that help those who are displaced, such as education and training programs, and income support and social safety nets, including wage insurance, lifetime retraining loans, and portable health and pension benefits.”
safety and responsibility while fostering a robust ai industry.
any ai system learning from bad examples could end up becoming socially inappropriate - we have to remember that most ai today has no cognition of what it is saying.
the fact is that these biases do exist in our society, and they’re reflected in nearly any piece of data you look at.
when implementing a moral framework for machines, the inherently imperfect knowledge about the future can be dealt with by calculi of imperfections such as fuzzy logic, possibility theory or probability theory.
• consider both product and process innovation and look at it from a global perspective as a way to understand properly the global impact of a/is on employment (refer to pianta, 2009 and vivarelli 2007).
the commission is proposing a three-pronged approach to increase public and private investment in ai, prepare for socio-economic changes, and ensure an appropriate ethical and legal framework.
the human rights law and standards outlined in this declaration provide a solid grounding for the developing ethical frameworks for machine learning.
ely and thomas (2001) investigated the effects of their proposed diversity management paradigms on work group functioning in a qualitative study of three professional ser- vices organizations.
in a sense, diversity research has progressed from a deeper understanding of the black box that lawrence (1997) identified as occurring between relational demography and outcomes to a need for more research on a black box of a different kind: that between inclusion and outcomes.
according to some definitions of the so- cial good, it also appears legitimate to outsource the (social) problem definition to, for example, an ngo or government agency.
the report is the result of a multi-stakeholder effort and includes contributions from more than 30 global business leaders.
empirical work has shown that social identity complexity is positively related to tolerance toward out- group members (roccas & brewer, 2002) and positive attitudes toward racial out-groups (brewer & pierce, 2005; miller, brewer, & arbuckle, 2009).
 encourage genuine diversity in engagement, particularly with marginalized communities and civil society.
unfortunately, as insider accounts from silicon valley tech companies have established, keeping people on their screens, rather than in the world of face-to-face interaction, is a key priority of designers and engineers at social-media outlets such as facebook.
as the case illustrates, a broad view of analytical and ai techniques that could be applicable to any given problem can be more appropriate in some cases than using only deep learning.
governments are among the most significant collectors of information, which can include tax, health, and education data, but private companies— including satellite operators, telecommunications firms, utilities, and technology companies that run digital platforms, as well as social media sites and search operations—also collect massive volumes of data.
such human knowl- edge can be both input to a research or development activity, and its eventual result.
and of course, some basic requests will be preempted by the aia’s disclosure requirement, saving researchers and the agencies the burden of engaging in the public records request process.
as a leader in ai for business we would like to call others to task - big businesses, small business and hackers alike - and ask them to bear these principles in mind when developing or deploying their own artificial intelligence.
• for an example of a guide on how to conduct an ethical risk assessment see british standards institute bs8611:2016, guide to the ethical design and application of robots and robotic systems.
1 we recognize that the line of demarcation between artificial intelligence capabilities and other analytical capabilities is not universally shared, with different people holding different definitions, over time.
for more information, please contact brent barronthe ethics of artificial intelligence for business leaders - should anyone care?
safe use and security are essential for social good uses of ai
37 percent of participants fit the definition of a “technophobe” – someone who is either afraid or very afraid of such automation as robots in the workforce, decision-making robots, technology they don’t understand, artificial intelligence and people who trust artificial intelligence to do work.
while aias will not be a panacea for the problems raised by automated decision systems, they are designed to be practical tools to inform the policy debate about the use of such systems and to provide communities with information that can help determine whether those systems are appropriate.
personal data and individual access control
in this  nal chapter, we suggest some areas in which stakeholders could make a meaningful contribution to further the use of ai for the bene t of society, especially in overcoming the key impediments of data accessibility, talent, and implementation.
the concept of responsible research and innovation (rri), a growing area, particularly within the eu, offers potential solutions to workplace bias and is being adopted by several research funders such as the epsrc, who include rri core principles in their mission statement.
create widespread education about how the nature of mixed reality will affect our social interactions to avoid widespread negative societal consequences.
however, we believe that our inclusion framework provides a basis for stimulating research on diversity that is focused on capitalizing on the unique value of diverse individuals.
in particular the access to data from public sector and academic communities as well as the interoperability of data assets, for instance in the health sector and regarding data platforms, are important leverages to boost innovation in ai.
we will have to decide on appropriate forms of capital ownership under such conditions.
led criminals to invent mail fraud and the telegraph was followed by wire fraud, the years since 1998 have seen both the adoption of the internet as a tool for progress and the rise of the internet as a new arena for fraud, practiced in increasingly creative and disturbing ways on a global basis.
16 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
this can lead to the disengagement of individuals even when in the company of others, as virtual interactions can supplement and surpass human interaction in the user experience they offer.
an underlying understanding of the business process or policy intent is also essential.
• weaver, j. f.. robots are people too: how siri, google car, and artificial intelligence will force us to change our laws.
[41] j. kleinberg s. mullainathan, m. raghavan, in- herent trade-offs in the fair determination of risk scores.
most use cases in our library either do not have known case studies or use only analytics; type of problem to solve and data used mainly revolve around optimization using structured data.
examples of this are the un’s human development index, the social progress index, and the united kingdom’s office
5 rob matheson, “artificial intelligence model ‘learns’ from patient data to make cancer treatment less toxic,” mit news, august 9, 2018, news.mit.edu/2018/artificial-intelligence-model-learns-patient-data-cancer- treatment-less-toxic-0810.
deploying ai without anchoring to robust compliance and core values may expose to significant risks including data privacy, health and safety issues.
13 house of lords, select committee on artificial intelligence.
that, since the scientific revolution, science and religion have split from one another but continue to cross paths, if only because they both rest, as carlo rovelli so beautifully expounds in his lyrical prose, on our wonder, on our drive to go beyond the immediately visible, on our desire to understand the world, on our need for connection, community, and love.
it will be essential that educational institutions inform engineering students about ethics, justice, and human rights, address ethical research and business practices surrounding the development of a/is, and attend to the responsibility of the technology sector vis-à-vis public interest issues.
“values,” the encyclopedia of social psychology, edited by r. f. baumeister and k. d. vohs, thousand oaks, ca: sage, 2007.
ieee p7010tm - wellbeing metrics standard for ethical artificial intelligence and autonomous systems
infrastructure challenges that could provide public
note that i only mention the chairs who replied and are responsible for the answers seen below, and note that while many of these chairs have many distinctions and titles, i’ve chosen one that seems most pertinent to this article, and i’ve included links to learn more about the individual chairs themselves.
ai and the future of jobs and work 85 the impact of technology on jobs and work 92 the changing nature of work, the workplace 102 and jobs
mobile education holds tremendous promise for millions ready to learn—but only if we solve some social and infrastructure problems first.
• improving digital literacy of citizens should be a high priority for the government and other organizations.
12) personal privacy: people should have the right to access, manage and control the data they generate, given ai systems’ power to analyze and utilize that data.
an example of this type of data quality issue arises when using data on past employment records to identify future candidates.
the declaration was born from an inclusive deliberation process that initiates a dialogue between citizens, experts, public ofﬁcials, industry stakeholders, civil organizations and professional associations.
as simon johnson and jonathan ruane of mit sloan remind us, “what is simple for us is hard for even the most sophisticated ai; conversely, ai often can do easily what we regard as difficult.” the challenge, then, will be to determine – and not only on safety grounds – where and when ai should and should not be deployed.
2. principle of data quality
if corporate, government and law enforcement autonomous entities, living and non-living, do not have the right to lie and fabric fake constructs and that for these entities it is even criminalized to communicate and distribute and that individual ai entities do not have the right to lie and fabric fake constructs, we should retrieve much less fake news and misleading information in the medias and on the internet.
we can design these experiences not for passive consumption but for strengthening social connections.
the example centers on drugs, considered by some to be “public enemy number one”13, that is, the ultimate “common bad”, whose absence would surely enhance the common good.
participation was solicited from organizational affiliates of a busi- ness center established to facilitate a partnership between industry and aca- deme to advance the study of global human resource management.
we will design our ai systems to be appropriately cautious, and seek to develop them in accordance with best practices in ai safety research.
knowledge: the ability of a computer to “reason” by understanding the relationship between people, things, places, events and the like.
of input data on which a trained model relies most heavily to make predictions.
participants also raised the need to promote awareness of ai so that the public can better understand how these technologies work and how they can benefit our daily lives.
in cases where created technologies or artifacts fail to embody or conflict with the values espoused in a code of conduct, it is imperative that professional organizations extend their codes of conduct
in a typical survey, one may test whether people prefer to spare many lives rather than few9,12,13; or whether people prefer to spare the young rather than the elderly14,15; or whether people prefer to spare pedestrians who cross legally, rather than pedestrians who jaywalk; or yet some other preference, or a simple combination of two or three of these preferences.
under no circumstances is it morally permissible to use aws without meaningful human control, and this should be prohibited.
to actors that will use them in ways that lead to human rights violations.
value alignment mapfuture of life institute
in summary, we would like to put forward an optimistic view of the evolution of the work market deriving from the diffusion of ai.
to make sure to maintain employee integrity, thus creating a good reputation of the company that will facilitate recruitment of top talent.
h. a. haenssle et al., “man against machine: diagnostic performance of a deep learning convolutional neural network for dermoscopic melanoma recognition in comparison to 58 dermatologists, annals of oncology, august 2018, volume 29, issue 8, pp.
... 15) shared prosperity: the economic prosperity created by ai should be shared broadly, to benefit all of humanity.
“a world where autonomous ai systems can predict and manipulate our choices,” he observes, “will force us to rethink the meaning of freedom.” similarly, we will also have to rethink the meaning and purpose of education, skills, jobs, and wages.
to understand this value, participants in epic believe it is essential to focus on and measure:
of course we did.” [43]22. baum’s view changes the roles of pieces of knowledge: in the war on drugs frame, the drug-taking is the problem, and the solu- tion is (or at least involves) arresting people, raiding their homes, breaking up their meetings, and using the media to vilify them.
evaluation criteria must capture the quality of human-machine interactions, human approval and appreciation of the a/is, trust in the a/is, adaptability of the a/is to human users, and human benefits in the presence or under
while aias resemble environmental impact assessments, data protection impact assessments, or privacy impact assessments, they di er in some very important ways.
the wordings also leave room for different distributions of the benefits, and they make no statements about how to negotiate multiple and possibly conflicting ideals, values, and notions of what is good.
for deliberate violations of human rights.
with the proper human supervision, they will learn by recognizing patterns in data.
we also believe that ai experiences can have the greatest positive impact when they offer both emotional intelligence and cognitive intelligence, a balance that can improve predictability and comprehension.
if a vendor objects to meaningful external review, this would signal a con ict between that vendor’s system and public accountability.
principles to guide you toward responsible, ethical ai
ensuring explainability is especially important in use cases relating to any decision making about individuals, and in particular for cases related to justice and criminal identification, when an accused person needs to be able to appeal a decision in a meaningful way.
human drivers who die in crashes cannot report whether they were faced with a dilemma; and human drivers who survive a crash may not have realized that they were in a dilemma situation.
these algorithms use statistics to find patterns in massive amounts of data.
the moral autonomous subject of modernity became thus a worldless isolated subject.
to help develop these guidelines, the commission will bring together all relevant stakeholders in aeuropean ai alliance.
in situations in which individuals’ needs for belongingness or uniqueness are activated, efforts to restore the balance include self-stereotyping, intergroup differentiation, and placing greater value on a particular social identity (jetten, spears, & manstead, 1998; pickett, bonner, et al., 2002; pickett, silver, et al., 2002).
for those organiza- tions with diversity officers, the human resource officers were asked to pass the survey on to the appropriate person.
the potential for ai to be used for social good is compelling, given both the large numbers of people who could be helped and the otherwise intractable problems that may be solved.
industries such as construction and entertainment have addressed this through labor-management partnerships that enable workers to retain healthcare and pension coverage across multiple employers, even for short-term work.
his rhetoric is as grandiose as we’d expect from a man whose company has billions of active users and a market value around us$500-billion.
a person is defined in relation to the community since the sense of being is intricately linked with belonging.
in an ai society, we could expect to see the protestant work ethic described by max weber gradually become an anachronism.
the context of the national public health emergency proclaimed by us president trump, see above.
of their power and limits, and so help their adoption and sense of control, are key technological objectives.
intelligence, whether it be natural or artificial, has no value in and of itself.
“artificial intelligence and the ‘good society’: the us, eu, and uk approach.” science and engineering ethics 24(2): 505-528.
“diverse teams are more likely to flag problems that could have negative social consequences before a product has been launched,” she says.
in all, based on interviews with social domain experts and ai researchers, we identified 18 potential bottlenecks that could stand in the way of successful ai deployments for social good.
tools like personal data vaults or clouds also let individuals organize their data around various uses (medical, social, banking).
we wish to express our appreciation for the reports, organizations, and individuals that have contributed research and insights helping to increase awareness around ethical issues
evelyn forget, a university of manitoba health economist, was one of 40 academics and researchers hired by the previous liberal government to evaluate ontarios basic income pilot project.
a vision for prioritizing human well-being with autonomous and intelligent systems
the projects that have received funding are focused on the functionality of ai, not the governance of ai, so it’s no wonder that the federal efforts haven’t seeded a plan for ai’s regulatory framework.
examining the relevant diversity literature through the lens of our inclusion framework suggests that the mixed results of diversity on performance (e.g., mannix & neale, 2005) may be due to the lack of consideration of the joint roles of belongingness and uniqueness across many studies.
“such work is neither challenging nor rewarding, nor does it have the prestige which must compensate ambitious young men in their upward climb.” as a result, top talent left rather than risk stalling their careers.
this is important as it enables us to give a voice to those less heard, challenge the powerful and hold them to account.
53 diakopolous, et al., “principles for accountable algorithms and a social impact statement for algorithms,” fatml, accessed march 16, 2018, https://www.fatml.org/resources/principles-for-accountable-algorithms.
if authorized by the person, individual ai could execute all computer interactions, but it would make sense that it is stated in the email that it is an individual ai’s interaction.
by encouraging open and honest discussion and assisting in the sharing of best practices, governments can also help create a culture of cooperation, trust and openness among ai developers, users and the public at large.
the montreal declaration – responsible ai
frameworks such as privacy by design can guide the process of identifying appropriate system and software requirements in early stages
the fact that big data cons tute new risks in the pro ling of groups has been lamented o en in connec on with data protec on laws such as the gdpr (which focus on the protec on of individuals’ rights and freedoms); in the humanitar- ian realm, it creates addi onal and dif- ferent challenges (taylor, van der sloot, & floridi, 2017).
in addition to external sensory input, we need to consider internal input (implanted devices) which deliver information to senses as well as deliver medication (or nutrition) based upon monitoring emotional or physical states.
it’s good for the profession and good for society.
the standard will help designers by providing ways to identify and measure privacy controls in their systems utilizing privacy impact assessments.
mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 45
debugging ml systems is one of the hardest problems in the field, since examining the individual state of the variables at any given time tells you approximately as much about the model as measuring a human’s neural potentials will tell you about what they had for dinner.
different jurisdictions may reach different conclusions about the nature of such causation chains, inviting future creative legal planners to consider how and where to pursue design, development, and deployment of future a/is in order to receive the most beneficial legal treatment.
or oversees the a/is while it operates, states should avoid adopting universal rules that assign legal responsibility and liability to the person who “turns on” the a/is.
theoretical  ethics (moral theory in philosophical ethics and moral psychology) normative  ethics  (  theories that say how we  should  act, how our ethical norms s  hould  be) descriptive e  thics  (  theories that neutrally describe what a society’s ethical norms  are )
at google, we use ai to make products more useful—from email that’s spam-free and easier to compose, to a digital assistant you can speak to naturally, to photos that pop the fun stuff out for you to enjoy.
for instance, a three percent increase in gst federally has been projected as the net cost to pay for a basic income, and that sounds like a good deal to us.22 a three percent increase in gst could be the backbone of a major economic stimulus while simultaneously ending poverty.
on the other hand, german ethical rule number 9 does not take a clear stance on whether and when autonomous vehicles should be programmed to sacrifice the few to spare the many, but leaves this possibility open: it is important, thus, to know that there would be strong public agreement with such programming, even if it is not mandated through regulation.
we don’t yet have a good way to manage this.
agencies ask potential vendors to waive restrictions on information necessary for external research and review.46 at minimum, vendors should be contractually required by agencies to waive any proprietary or trade secrecy interest in information related to accountability, such as those surrounding testing, validation, and/or veri cation of system performance and disparate impact.47 this also encourages a competitive landscape among government technology vendors to meet the accountability requirements of aias if they want to do business with public agencies.
"if these fears are misplaced, more research needs to be done to dispel technophobia as a legitimate social concern.
in the dssg programs we’ve observed, students are doing the lion’s share of the project work, and the programs have a twofold purpose: they exist not only to meet the objectives of the project, but also to provide an educational opportunity for these students.
the good news is that many communities and countries have developed new innovations to address this issue, and there are opportunities to learn from these emerging practices.
because the less complex models are nested within the higher order alternative models, comparisons of model fit showed that one of the five- factor models (model a) provided a more suitable explanation of the rela- tionships among the data.
disclaimer: while we have provided recommendations in this document, it should be understood these do not represent a position or the views of ieee but the informed opinions of committee members providing insights designed to provide expert directional guidance regarding a/is.
in society the a/is must be able to adjust its existing norms and learn new ones, while being transparent about these changes.
we are probably right to expect significant changes in the workplace and a contraction of the labour market.
2) when the misuse of an ais endangers public health or safety and has a high probability of occurrence, it is prudent to restrict open access and public dissemination to its algorithm.
as the amount of data generated by the government continues to grow exponentially, the importance of being able to leverage this information to drive innovation becomes more critical.
for ethical decision making.” aaai workshop: ai, ethics, and society, volume ws-16-02
“computational rationality: a converging paradigm for intelligence in brains, minds, and machines.” science 349, no.
via four lead questions, i will illustrate challenges and pitfalls when determining, from an ai point of view, what the common good is and how it can be en- hanced by ai.
the forum on the socially responsible development of artificial intelligence, held in montreal on november 2 and 3, 2017, concluded with the unveiling of the preamble of a draft declaration to which the public is now invited to contribute in a co-construction process involving all sectors of society.
personal data cannot be controlled or understood when fragmented and controlled by a myriad of entities in legal jurisdictions across the world.
algorithmic impact assessments draw directly from impact assessment frameworks in environmental protection, data protection, privacy, and human rights policy domains.18 for example, the united states’ national environmental protection act mandates that federal agencies evaluate a proposed action’s impact on the “quality of the human environment” through an environmental impact statement (eis).19 while the eis process has by no means solved issues of environmental degradation, it has been credited with engendering increased sensitivity to environmental values within federal agencies and for informing the public, which is especially notable given the complex scienti c knowledge the eis process can require.20
the various moral agents within the specific community.
we recommend authorities and public institutions to promote and favor the access to such open platforms, while providing a framework and governance to face possible issues of responsibility and competitiveness (misuse of data, off-shoring).
a popular solution to dealing with rising inequalities is the institution of a basic income; that is, some form of unconditional social security benefit that is provided to everyone within a society.
as a result, we advocate for an approach where systems are designed to provide transparent signals (such as explanations or inspection capabilities) about
we’re building ai systems that are designed to amplify natural human ingenuity.
data sources from different operational areas could potentially be of great benefit to the goa and be used for multiple purposes if data management practices were improved.
between men having spent some amount of effort and energy actively pushing women out, and marketing decisions having had some influence on creating gendered stereotypes, and those stereotypes having had some impact on diminishing appeal of the field to women, and workplace sexism, hostility and unfair treatment having had some deterring effects against women, and society-wide labor practice changes having some influence on women’s presence in the workforce overall, we have a very cumulative picture in the aggregate that explains the status quo for women in computer science.
“the problem of ‘personal data’ in cloud computing — what information is regulated?
(conversely, the way humans are wired makes other tasks artificially easy for computers to get “right enough.” for example, human brains are wired to assume, in case of doubt, that something which acts more-or-less alive is actually animate.
one manager in a regulated industry actually pointed to the regulation as a benefit for the company, as it provided clear guidance for what to do and not to do across all competitors in the industry.
[50] l. taylor, the ethics of big data as a public good: which public?
digital healthcare data from national registries were also provided to support the finngen research consortium.29
industries that control or generate data, including satellite and telecommunications companies and major tech  rms with social media or other platforms, can accelerate their involvement.
this also means that familiar faculties of intelligent entities we know like morality, compassion, and common sense will not be present by default in these new intelligences.
first, “for social good” originated as an initiative from data science, second, data science is one key area of, or related to, current ai (for details, see the definitions in section 3), such that, third, many contributions to conferences on ai for (social) good are or contain data science.
 establish common goa data management, exchange and interoperability standards that enable availability to reliable, timely and relevant data.
• citron, d. k. “open code governance.” university of chicago legal forum 2008, no.
to support a better understanding of the challenges and opportunities for alberta by using data as a basis for decision making in the government of alberta.
security applications, such as guarding property, patrolling areas, and personal protection.
most importantly, such personal agents will be necessary for democracy itself, if citizens are to have a hope of keeping pace with the demands of an increasingly technology-dominated future.
to illustrate the breadth of areas where ai could be applied for social good, this section goes into more speci c detail about six cases.
the goal is described as “ai innovation [being] central to the achievement of the united nations’ sustain- able development goals (sdgs) by capitalizing on the unprecedented quantities of data now being gen- erated on sentiment behavior, human health, com- merce, communications, migration and more”, in- cluding goals such as “no poverty”, “zero hunger”, and “good health and well-being”.9 these and most of the 14 other sdg goals have a substantive focus.
argued that leaders of diverse groups need to display behaviors consistent with group values that create a dual focus on acceptance of diverse members and appropriate modes of conduct necessary to accomplish group goals.
21the distinction between data, information, and knowledge is a classical discussion in ai, but since the focus here is on the practical consequences of deployed ai technology rather than on its philosophical foundations, the discussion is not relevant for present purposes.
this makes taking a risked-based approach to the ethical use of artificial intelligence essential.
this percep on of a dataset assumes that the popula on of data subjects con- sists of informed individuals, who exer- cise their autonomy among other things by travelling in vehicle passages they pay for, and who have a reasonable expecta-  on of privacy in doing so that requires that the data about their movements re- main con den al.
that’s why many courts started to use automated “risk assessments” as part of their sentencing guidelines.
this enterprise data analytics strategy outlined in this paper supports, aligns with, and links to several pillars and strategies in the goa’s 5-year information management and technology strategic plan.
commission outlines european approach to artificial intelligence
consider the indirect impact of the automobile on the
data use and collection for potential ethics risks will become increasingly more complex with a/is in relation to these issues in the future.
industry groups and others should build off these principles to create detailed best practices for key aspects of the development of ai systems, such as the nature of the data used to train ai systems, the analytical techniques deployed, and how the results of ai systems are explained to people using those systems.
further attempts to acquire personal data by law enforcement agencies, such as the u.s. federal bureau of investigation, have disturbed settled legal principles regarding search and seizure.
any system will always have some mistakes, but i believe we can do better than we are today.
the latter can be implemented by special short-term programmes engaging partners from academia and industry to connect the innovator/supply side with the demand side or by establishing living laboratories and test fields that provide support in ai-based model building allowing to explore and assess opportunities of new technologies and business models in practical settings.
designed to be semi-autonomous, where the control over the critical functions remains with a human operator, (such as through a human-in- the-loop hardware interlock).
we tagged individual use cases in our library from low to high in each domain and then aggregated the score to the issue type level.
by aligning data control with data provenance, it would respect a form of data ownership rights.
the question that a sentencing risk assessment model ought to be asking is something like, “what is the probability that this person will commit a serious crime in the future, as a function of the sentence you give them now?” that would take into account both the person and the effect of the sentence itself on their future life: will it imprison them forever?
but without oversight, aias could become a checkbox that agencies mark o  and forget, potentially sidelining community concerns.28 that is why the algorithmic impact assessment process should also provide a path for the public to challenge an agency
predicting technology diffusion and, especially its impact, hinges on a variety of exogenous factors including further technological advances to overcome existing limitations but also political and economic factors (regulations, availability of funding, cost vs. benefit aspects, etc.).
but our goal must be to help people see a more complete picture, not just alternate perspectives.
p7004 provides processes and certifications for transparency and accountability for educational institutions that handle data meant to ensure the safety of students.
therefore, it is imperative for industry, academia, and government to communicate accurately both the positive potential of a/is and the areas that require caution.
one important use of ai is to help humans make better decisions: not to directly operate some actuator, but to tell a person what it recommends, and so better-equip them to make a good choice.
if equitable access is left unaddressed, we will exclude entire populations from fully participating in this new world of work.
to operationalize ethics in artificial intelligence and machine learning systems, you have to ask the right questions to the right people at the right time.
16)human control: humans should choose how and whether to delegate decisions to ai systems, to accomplish human-chosen objectives.
what matters is  not  a theoretical knowledge of ethics (though this can be a useful tool, like a birdwatchers’ field guide), but p  ractical experience and skill  assessing the ethical landscape in those areas connected to your life and work.
as a function of time, which entities uses which amount of money to do which activity may greatly vary.
in may 2018, the white house convened a meeting of over 100 senior government officials, technical experts from top academic institutions, heads of industrial research labs, and american business leaders who are adopting ai technologies to benefit their customers, workers, and shareholders.
no entities, living or non-living, part of the industrial farming body or not, should have the right to create or the right to operate abattoir.
the ai social principles will be finalized in march 2019.
differences between affective systems and societal values can generate conflict situations (e.g., gestures being misunderstood, or prolonged or inadequate eye contact) that may produce undesirable results, perhaps even physical violence.
in making decisions about a project’s evolution, then, one of the challenges is striking the right balance between these two priorities.
these two reactions are linked, at a high level, by the understanding that the goal of ethics codes is to encourage and ensure “ethical” profes- sional conduct in the sense of this conduct being “morally good or correct” and “avoiding activities [...] that do harm to people or the environment”.1 2
it is di cult to say what role such expecta ons of, or wishes for, privacy in our usual sense, play in this extreme situa on.
a/is technologies designed to replicate human tasks, behavior, or emotion have the potential to either increase or decrease well-being.
the norm identification process detailed in section 1 is intended to minimize individual designers’ biases, because the community
we describe the potential of ai technology and potential (sometimes actual) application areas ranging from data analytics, robotics, engineering, genetics, climate change analysis, etc.
common sense in the a/is and an ability to explain its logical reasoning must be required.
without leaving a document, you can  nd and incorporate relevant information from across the web using bing “knowledge graph.” if you are creating a powerpoint presentation, powerpoint designer assesses the images and text you’ve used, and provides design tips to create more professional-looking slides, along with suggestions for text captions for images to improve accessibility.
this principle essentially states that the collection of personal data should be limited to what is relevant and necessary to accomplish a specific purpose, and for only as long as necessary.
in other words, ai systems and their outputs are considered useful if they work on large and rich data or knowledge, and if their outputs present new information that humans derive further knowledge from and act upon.21
subject to the terms of that license, organizations or individuals can adopt aspects of this work at their discretion at any time.
the development of a next-generation intelligent supply chain will better position canada as a trading nation and drive productivity and competitiveness of canadian firms who adopt artificial intelligence.
the new guidelines, the external panel and the internal committee aim to ensure that the ai capabilities supported by sap leonardo machine learning capabilities are used to maintain integrity and trust in all solutions.
to improve how the public and private sectors work together to match job seekers with job openings, linkedin has opened its listings to governments in the united states,
may be protected by intellectual property rights held by third parties or organizations, and the use of this information may require the user to negotiate with any such rights holders in order to legally acquire the rights to do so, and such rights holders may refuse to grant such rights.
we need a pan-european ethical code to ensure that ai systems remain compatible with the principles of human dignity, integrity, freedom and cultural and gender diversity, as well as with fundamental human rights,” stressed catelijne muller, “and we need labour strategies to retain or create jobs and ensure that workers keep autonomy and pleasure in their work”.
personal and sensitive data now travels unpredictably and will be reused inde nitely for unforeseeable purposes.
21) risks: risks posed by ai systems, especially catastrophic or existential risks, must be subject to planning and mitigation efforts commensurate with their expected impact.
it is imperative that all humans in any condition around the world are considered in the general development and application of these systems to avoid the risk of bias, excessive imbalances, classism, and general non-acceptance of these technologies.
but that order is now in upheaval amid a new, even more sweeping technological revolution whose consequences we have failed to fully reckon with, and whose culmination may be a world relying on machines powered by data and algorithms and ungoverned by ethical or philosophical norms.
 work with the goa professionals in the evaluation and assessment network (ean) to develop an evaluation plan that measures progress through the stages of maturity based on the maturity model as described below.
the underlying data are already extremely sensitive, and if mental health status becomes public, the exposure could signi cantly hurt individuals and set back their recovery, given the continuing stigma surrounding mental health issues.
representative positive and negative data need to be collected to help reduce unwanted biases.
[26] b. f. malle, integrating robot ethics and ma- chine morality: the study and design of moral competence in robots.
individuals have a duty to protect their data: profile information would normally be behind a curtain of legal protection.
how do we create privacy impact assessments related to a/is?
the most signi cant bottlenecks we identi ed, and which we describe in detail in this chapter are data accessibility, a shortage of talent to develop ai solutions, and “last mile” implementation challenges.43
also necessary for all stakeholders to consider design and implement accountability measures to help ensure all weapons are used in conformity with the law.
if their contribution to a system is foreseeably and knowingly to aid in human-aided decisions — that is, as part of a weapon system that is under meaningful human control — this may act as a justification for their research.
can be drawn from the data are only as valuable as the ac ons they induce.
as canadian business leaders, we urge the ontario government to continue the ontario basic income pilot.
chapter 2 principles, policies and laws for the responsible use of ai
even with government regulations, we have little real control over our information.
if a system is designed for use against humans, such systems must be
humanity’s ability to drive this change is largely a function of our intelligence.
an enterprise data analytics steering committee will be established accountable to the adm im/it committee within the framework of the deputy minister information management and technology integration committee.
all actors, public and private, must prevent and mitigate discrimination risks in the design, development and, application of machine learning technologies and that ensure that effective remedies are in place before deployment and throughout the lifecycle of these systems.
and protect human rights.
61 mike ananny and kate crawford, “seeing without knowing: limitations of the transparency ideal and its application to algorithmic accountability.” new media & society (2016)
for example, od professionals in study 3 may have approached the survey from a systems perspective, thus resulting in a more nuanced or complex view of diversity and inclusion in organizations, whereas execu- tives in study 2 may have perceived a link between a broader array of organi- zational attributes and the management of diversity, thus resulting in a sim- pler factor structure.
we propose a multi-layered training and education scheme specific to ai assuming that basic/mass education is a “first principle” of any of the g7 countries.
the predominantly digital services can grow without increasing manpower, because intense automation of production and delivery allows handling a huge customer base at a global scale.
its basic tenet is that a person is a person through other persons.
what happens when we begin to augment human intelligence and ingenuity with the computational intelligence of computers?
the u.s. approach to ai is a multi-pronged approach that builds upon the strength of the american research and development ecosystem that is based on a strong partnership across industry, academia, and government.
this principle is inspired by ethical, legal, and general intellectual principles.
 use agile and iterative practices – maintain momentum, adapt best practices and evolve with system needs
one use case, based on work by affectiva, which was spun out of the mit media lab, and autism glass, a stanford research project, involves use of ai to automate emotion recognition and provide social cues to help individuals along the autism spectrum interact in social environments.10 another example is the creation of an alternative identi cation veri cation system for individuals without traditional forms of id, such as driver’s licenses.
ai could be the moon landing of our generation, an inspiring scientific leap forward that brings huge benefits to mankind.
describes two assessment instruments of moral reasoning (including norm maintenance) based on kohlberg’s theory of moral development.
“liability for distributed artificial intelligences.” berkeley technology law journal 11, no.
doctors are starting to use ai to help diagnose cancer and prevent blindness.
this standard will provide engineers and technologists with an implementable process aligning innovation management processes, is system design approaches and software engineering methods to minimize ethical
• “autonomous weapons: an open letter from ai & robotics researchers.” future of life institute, 2015.
humans often use mirroring in order to understand and develop their principles and norms for behavior.
the working group chairs seem to argue that companies who lead the pack in transparency efforts may be seen as more socially conscious and benevolent – in much the same way that progressive policies around maternity leave or transgender employees may similarly frame companies as the “good guys.” the management of perception is important for any business (particularly publicly traded companies).
for a responsible development of artificial intelligence
a well-crafted law to protect whistleblowers and allow a public interest cause of action would improve accountability and aid in prevention of intentional, reckless, or negligent misuses of a/is.
it is human history, already broken loose, already ravenous and hard to predict.
funda- mental rights / human rights (“basic rights and free- doms”) are parts of the common good [7].
without an understanding of how the solution works, which may require data scientists or “translators”—that is, people who can bridge the technical expertise of data engineers and data scientists with the operational expertise of frontline managers—the ngo or other implementing organization may be overly trusting of the model results, even though most ai models cannot perform accurately all the time.
a. establishing scope: define “automated decision system”
this transfer may lead to an increase in skill levels and a growing need for social skills, required for management of complicated interactions with customers, patients or users.
such a regulation expressly limits automated profiling and requires data controllers inform the users “meaningful information of the logic involved, as well as the significance and envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject,” among a host of other new rules.
it will confer enormous bene ts on society.
in all, based on interviews with social domain experts and ai researchers, we identi ed 18 potential bottlenecks that could stand in the way of successful ai deployments for social good.
we also recommend that the system’s resolution of norm conflicts be transparent — that is, documented by the system and ready to be made available to users.
basic income reduces stress, improving health24 and reducing crime,25 all which are good for society.
 establish and implement a goa analytics code of ethics that guides the responsible use of data.
from policing, to welfare systems, online discourse, and healthcare – to name a few examples – systems employing machine learning technologies can vastly and rapidly change or reinforce power structures or inequalities on an unprecedented scale and with significant harm to human rights.
it turns out it’s hard to get online if you’re a young woman: cost, stereotypes, and family concerns about online harassment block young women from using tech and accessing opportunities.
it is unethical to design, develop, or engineer aws without ensuring that they remain reliably subject to meaningful human control.
• involvement of domain experts in the design process and operation of ai systems used to make consequential decisions about people.
however, as the ai  eld continues to advance, and more models are pretrained with large amounts of data in various domains, the incremental amount of data required to solve individual problems can often be reduced.
not only are implementations never perfect, but a/is with embedded norms will update or expand their norms over extended use (see section 1, issue 2) and interactions
however, research findings resulting from this focus on similarity (belongingness) often have been mixed (e.g., mannix & neale, 2005; riordan, 2000), which suggests the possibility that demographic similarity may not always promote a sense of belongingness on its own and also that it may not be sufficient to ensure positive outcomes (cf.
this issue is particularly important at the current time, in view of all the public exposure, hype, and genuine excitement surrounding ar/vr/ mr. one can observe new companies emerging in the healthcare space without any credible expert clinical and/or research guidance.
second, a systematic risk analysis and management approach can be useful (e.g., oetzel and spiekermann, 2014, for an application to privacy norms).
a virtue ethic for computational agents.” ethics and information technology 3, no.
• the acm code of ethics and professional ethics, which also includes various references to human well-being and human rights.
cooperation would also help improve public trust, especially at a time when skepticism of the societal bene ts of tech companies is on the rise.54 these new incentives can encourage a race to the top of the accountability spectrum among vendors.
in terms of digital citizenship via digital social networks.
the personal data (names, email addresses...) and the other informa on entered in master newsle er will be treated according with the provision set out in legisla ve degree 196/2003 (known as privacy code) and subsequently integra on and amendment.
2) ais must be developed with the goal of collaborating with humans on complex tasks and should foster collaborative work between humans.
his first promise is that his team will develop better algorithms for predicting which kinds of “very meaningful” facebook communities (those that “quickly become the most important part of our social network experience”) would benefit its users, and to “help connect one billion people with meaningful communities, that can strengthen our social fabric.” his second promise is to “expand groups to support sub-communities,” people who care about the same sports teams, television shows, video games and the like.
highlighting similar politically misguided sayings throughout the years that was too good not to share.
without being research or tech organizations, both of them were created under the assumption that technology is key for competitiveness and that taking new solutions to the market is an essential driver for growth.
so the compas model was trained on a proxy for the real, unobtainable data: given the information we know about a person at the time of sentencing, what is the probability that this person will be convicted of a crime?
* we have big lack of trust not just in ai but about privacy - data
for about one-third of the use cases in our library to date, we identi ed an actual ai deployment in some form (exhibit 2).
as an example, consider imprisoned drug users as one of the relevant groups in [31].
recommendation for the development of an oversight body for development of ai applications in canadian organizations
note that this formulation focuses on the goals and behaviors of a robot and asks that these be aligned with human values (presumably those of principle 11) listed above), and that it does not make a commit- ment as to whether these goals and behaviors stem from the humans designing, manufacturing, or using the robot, or from the robot itself.
additionally, there are sizable differences in the industry and occupational distribution by sex, though these have been slowly declining over the last four decades.
for example, an ai system designed to detect misplaced objects may have dif culty recognizing items in low lighting conditions, meaning designers should conduct
our working groups have put forward candidate recommendations on a variety of concerns: considering how affect varies across human cultures, the particular problems of artifacts designed for intimate relations, considerations of how intelligent artifacts may be used for “nudging,” how systems can support (or at least not interfere with) human flourishing, and appropriate policy concerning artifacts designed with their own affective systems.
for instance, we may free up the schedules of radiologists or legal clerks by using systems than will scan medical images for cancer cells or scan legal contracts for useful information in a court case.
there’s a stupid reason these terms mean almost the same thing: it’s that “artificial intelligence” has historically been defined as “whatever computers can’t do yet.” for years, people argued that it would take true artificial intelligence to play chess, or simulate conversations, or recognize images; every time one of those things actually happened, the goalposts got moved.
digital fabrication technologies, meanwhile, are interacting with the biological world on a daily basis.
5 metcalf j and crawford k (2016) where are human subjects in big data research?
the public on ai benefits and challenges.
to create intelligent technical systems that enhance and extend human well-being and freedom, value-based design methodologies put human advancement at the core of development of technical systems, in concert with the recognition that machines should serve humans and not the other way around.
these challenges cannot be left to the business community alone: governments, the social partners, scientists and businesses should all be involved.
for example, employment laws in most countries assume that everyone is either a full-time employee or an independent contractor, making no room for people who work in the new economy for uber, lyft or other similar services that are emerging in every  eld from tech support to caregiving.
for the equality and inclusion and the security and justice domains, however, we  nd a high percentage of multimodal use cases (73 percent and 63 percent, respectively), due to an emphasis on natural environment and human behavior understanding in these domains.
• advance a public discussion about how we can establish ethical and social implementations for intelligent and autonomous systems and technologies, aligning them to defined values and ethical principles that prioritize human well-being in a given cultural context.
the development of ais must be compatible with maintaining the bonds of solidarity among people and generations.
this is an invitation to the ai community to test and share their experiences!
as such, companies will effectively navigate the challenges posed by digital disruption by undertaking initiatives that are far more organizational and managerial than technical.deploying artificial intelligence for your small business — on a shoestring budget
the goals of an effective a/is policy center on the protection and promotion of safety, privacy, intellectual property rights, human rights, and cybersecurity, as well as the public understanding of the potential impact of a/is on society.
with the latest (and often most promising) ai techniques, such as deep neural networks, there typically isn’t any algorithmic output that would help people understand the subtle patterns that systems  nd.
to formulate policies that prevent such violations of political, social, economic, and cultural rights.
software libraries such as pytorch, tensorflow, and fast.ai are available to a global public on an open-source basis, and the ease with which they can be deployed and used continues to improve over time.
17 andrew d. selbst, “disparate impact in big data policing,” 52 georgia l. rev.
by contrast, german ethical rule number 9 also states that any distinction based on personal features, such as age, should be prohibited.
encourage partners to publicly publish and commit to abide by this new code of ethics.
when trained on data from public employment records, this system might “learn” that most software developers are male.
as the internet and increased computing power have facilitated the accumulation and analysis of vast data, unprecedented vistas for human understanding have emerged.
this is especially true when working with stakeholders, including ngos, who require a basic level of transparency of use and will likely want to provide individuals with clear explanations.
alterations to the critical functions or targeting and weapons release of an already- reviewed weapons systems should be considered for review, and any system automating those functions should be reviewed to ensure meaningful human control.
still, the notion of ai loyalty presented here remains an important concept that emphasizes the need for individuals to have access to advanced software tools that they can fully trust to work at their own behest and behalf.
if the data used to build and run accurate and fair ai models are not representative or of suf ciently high quality—for example, if some data are partially missing, outdated, or contain errors—this can be a serious risk, as we discuss in more detail in chapter 5. exhibit 12 shows how our use cases map to data accessibility and ai capability maturity across domains.
more interaction with this field could benefit future ai and data studies [13].
in customer care services, if simple requests are handled by ai, complex cases are then handed to human advisors.
thorough human-factors-driven design of user interface and human–computer/robot interaction design is necessary for situational awareness, knowability, understandability, and interrogation of system goals, reasons, and constraints, such that the user could be held culpable.
right now, we're starting to explore ways to use ai to tell the difference between news stories about terrorism and actual terrorist propaganda so we can quickly remove anyone trying to use our services to recruit for a terrorist organization.
in the event of a data leak27, such social network mining methods could be used to derive inferences about in- dividuals’ drug-related behaviors or propensities that may damage reputations and affect lives.
urgent issues around individual consent, potential privacy breaches, and potential for harm or discrimination regarding individual’s personal data require attention and standardized approaches.
governments and decision-makers at every level must work closely with regulators, representatives of civil society, industry actors, and other stakeholders to
however, in the digital and virtual spheres, algorithms that have been programmed by design may eliminate genuine randomness from our human experience.
3) ais should not be implemented to replace people in duties that require quality human relationships, but should be developed to facilitate these relationships.
eighth international conference on social robotics (icsr 2016), kansas, mo., november 2016.
the asymmetric power of institutions (including public interest) over individuals should not
artificial intelligence (ai) promises to usher in fundamental change in our society, affecting everything from business to government; working life to personal time.
in its use and safe application.
how can ethical considerations in tech design become an integrated part of the agenda of companies, public projects, and research consortia?
in this section, i will study two challenges related to this transformation, both of them related to knowl- edge.
from the previous considerations, some recommen- dations can be derived for ai researchers and practi- tioners who want to contribute to the common good:
have the potential to be more fair, and less biased than humans, provided that the systems are designed well.
at one level, ai will require that even more people specialize in digital skills and data science.
impressive progress has been made in ai in recent years, driven by exponential increases in computing power and by the availability of vast amounts of data, from software used to discover new drugs to algorithms used to predict our cultural interests.
at a recent conference convened by a national lab, speakers from universities and technology companies echoed this sentiment in presentations about another kind of data repository in the works, one that would combine not just data from public transportation agencies, but also from private transportation companies.
canada - the montreal declaration on the responsible development of ai, the result of a multi-stakeholder engagement process spearheaded by the université de montréal, seeks to outline “a series of ethical guidelines for the development of ai.”27 the first draft identifies seven key values to keep in mind when developing ai: “well-being, autonomy, justice, privacy, knowledge, democracy and accountability.”
agencies could also save e ort by borrowing de nitions from other agencies and governments that are better tested, already have public approval, or perhaps have even withstood challenges in court.
reskilling schemes, consider a broader social safety net, and modernize
does it contravene ethical guidelines or social etiquette for ai to answer our e-mails for us?
as societal values change over time, any affective system needs to have the capability to detect this evolution and adapt its current ethical values to be in accordance with other people’s values.
one consequence is that specific views – including but not limited to the perception of what the problem is by specific stakeholder groups – can remain suppressed, or that the knowledge that certain solutions do not work is blocked.
as ai capabilities evolve and as technical and social impact practitioners continue to identify more ways in which these capabilities can be applied, we expect the library to grow.
pushed by technological advances and massive investment, ai is introducing asymmetries which are transforming the job market in content as well as in location.
“not only is the cancellation inconsistent with international best practices, but it violates your own canadian policy for the ethical conduct of experiments involving humans,” warns forget in the letter signed by more than 20 researchers and stakeholders participating in basic income initiatives around the world.
government, industry and citizens are creating a wealth of valuable data assets.
effective regulation should address transparency, understandability, predictability, and accountability of ai algorithms, risk management, data protection, and safety.
publisher’s note: springer nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.canada is at risk of being left behind by ai
of independent workers use digital talent platforms to connect to work.
the needs of local communities, greater society, and public good should factor into this process.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 39
b, relative advantage or penalty for each character, compared to an adult man or woman.
people around the world can bene t from ai — but only if ai technologies are available for them.
machine learning might also make it possible to answer questions like: ‘will generational transmission of poverty occur in this family?’ or ‘how much economic aid is needed to integrate this person into society?42’).
structured deep learning, which applies deep learning techniques to traditional tabular data, is a third ai capability that has broad potential uses for social good.
the true key problem facing organizations with respect to digital disruption is people — specifically, the different rates at which people, organizations, and policy respond to technological advances.
[81] m. chappelka, j. oh, d. scott, m. walker- holmes, food for thought: analyzing public opinion on the supplemental nutrition assistance program.
the ambition is to leverage a similar increase from the member states and businesses, and thereby collectively achieve an overall investment of more than 20 billion euros by 2020. the european commission will further increase its investment in ai in the next budget period, mainly through two programmes: the research and innovation framework programme, horizon europe, and the new digital europe programme.
56. in the absence of modernized laws, regulatory agencies are developing interpretations that represent vast departures from prior precedent — for example, expanding the scope of joint employment.
in 2015, researchers at microsoft announced that they had taught computers to identify objects in a photograph or video as accurately as people do in a test using the standard imagenet 1k database of images.2 in 2017, microsoft’s researchers announced they had developed a speech recognition system that understood spoken words as accurately as a team of professional transcribers, with an error rate of just 5.1 percent using the standard switchboard dataset.3 in essence, ai-enhanced computers can, in most cases, see and hear as accurately as humans.
however, there has been a striking decline in the important social infrastructure of local communities over the past few decades.
while the larger question of ethics and ai looks at the implications of the influence of autonomous systems in
of undergraduate and postgraduate students related to sustainable human development and its relationship with a/is, so that they are prepared to assume their responsibilities in
of existing legal human rights guidelines for non-state actors.
when asked about the idea of a single source of wisdom on ethics, some point out that legal or diversity/inclusion departments are designed for that purpose and that the ethics should really come from the top — the chief executive.
17–18 in report of the u.k. house of commons science and technology committee on robotics and artificial intelligence, september 13, 2016.
exploring the future effects of cps shows that it could have considerable impacts on various areas in our personal and professional lives.
 the ai industry will need to ensure responsible activity so that its social license is maintained, particularly in sensitive fields, such as healthcare.
the city of new york recently has made a positive step in this area, with a bill mandating the creation of a task force to make “recommendations on how information on agency automated decision systems may be shared with the public and how agencies may address instances where people are harmed by agency automated decision systems.” this task force (notably composed of experts from a variety of sectors including government, academia, the private sector and civil society) is to investigate potential bias resulting from algorithms used in city departments.
3. open a national and international forum for discussion to collectively achieve equitable, inclusive, and ecologically sustainable ai development.
recommendation 3: ensure citizens are equipped with loyal personal ai agents, attuned to the owner’s interests
the nurem- berg code, an early and highly influential code of re- search ethics, posits: “the experiment should aim at positive results for society that cannot be pro- cured in some other way.”24 the legal principle of proportionality (which pervades laws in general, and is particularly clearly adaptable to current purposes when a knowledge-based activity interferes with the fundamental right to data protection) says that the measure should be necessary to reach the goal.
last but not least, human beings may act as reference persons, and social media may serve as a moral input – rather questionable possibilities which were stated in the short story about nac (cf.
artificial intelligence (ai) has matured considerably over the past years and is becoming the main driver for the digitalization of value chains and development of autonomous systems generating new value for citizen, economy and society.
social harmony is for us the summum bonum — the greatest good.
an ai system could also be unfair if people do not understand the limitations of the system, especially if they assume technical systems are more accurate and precise than people, and therefore more authoritative.
an analysis of our use case library found four main categories of risk that are particularly relevant when leveraging ai solutions for social good, as we describe below.
data lies at the foundation of this and each pillar is focused on enhancing the value of the data through governance.
the need for collaborative data sharing and analysis would result in smarter data management practices which would in turn yield potential savings in time and money.
j3016, taxonomy and definitions for terms related to on-road motor vehicle automated driving systems.
two contributions dealing with questions of fairness take the existence of different viewpoints of what “fair” means as the starting points of their formal models [77, 78].
and we will have to create new incentives for people to contribute to society.
a/is ethics and help designers, engineers, and other company representatives discern the differences between them and where they complement each other.
a major issue since allegations of collaboration between technology firms and signals intelligence agencies such as the u.s. national security agency and the u.k. government communications headquarters were revealed.
box 2. a growing body of research on the ethics of ai
if ai learns exponentially faster than humans, we must expect it to accelerate, also exponentially, the trial-and-error process by which human decisions are generally made: to make mistakes faster and of greater magnitude than humans do.
[62] s. barocas, a. d. selbst, big data’s disparate impact.
this impact will diffuse through the global society.
while there are proven benefits for creating empathy in users or treating ptsd for soldiers while utilizing mixed, virtual, or augmented reality, there are also potential negative unintended consequences via loss of agency, consent, or confusion about one’s place in one’s world(s) depending on how these tools are used in regards to a person suffering from mental health issues, or for any individual unused to these environments.
a broad approach towards ai, covering all its effects (good and bad) on society as a whole, is crucial.
agencies to have successfully ‘institutionaliz[ed] environmental values in government.’”
data accessibility remains a significant challenge.
building on the inaugural 2016 report, the ai now 2017 report addresses the most recent scholarly literature in order to raise critical social questions that will shape our present and near future.
they include a discussion on how insights from their data analysis and possible actions based on these insights could in- teract in the future and what this would imply for applicants and their use of the financing instrument they study.
the focus of this paper is on other social bene t uses of ai that do not require scienti c breakthroughs but that add to existing efforts to help individuals or groups in both advanced and developing economies who are experiencing challenges or crises and who often live beyond the reach of traditional or commercial solutions.
on the one hand, i will refer to a notion of knowledge as used in psychology: “a structured collection of information that can be acquired through learning, perception or reasoning” [21], understood to be held by a human agent (mental representation).
the group value model of pro- cedural justice may provide additional guidance to future research on inclusive leadership (lind & tyler, 1988).
a climate of inclusion is one in which policies, procedures, and actions of organizational agents are consistent with fair treatment of all social groups, with particular attention to groups that have had fewer opportunities historically and that are stigmatized in the societies in which they live.
the rights of citizens need to be protected, and the ability of government to govern must be maintained.
the bene ts of self assessments to public agencies go beyond algorithmic accountability: it encourages agencies to better manage their own technical systems and become leaders in the responsible integration of increasingly complex computational systems in governance.
“algorithmic transparency via quantitative input influence: theory and experiments with learning systems.” 2016 ieee symposium on security and privacy, may 22–26, 2016. doi: 10.1109/sp.2016.42
15 metcalf j and crawford k (2016) where are human subjects in big data research?
to solve this issue in some contexts, but design standards and business incentives have yet
if the courts are creaking under the strain of too many demands, if resolutions to disputes are hobbled by lengthy delays and exorbitant costs, we should be open to the possibility of using ai and algorithms to optimize judicial resources.
the narrative of “a/is for the common good” is starting to present itself in various settings.
their associated insights may lead to complex and sensitive conclusions being drawn about individuals that consumers would not have consented to sharing.
it seems like common sense: as the economy is transformed by ai, the regulatory environment must keep up.
solutions being developed to improve accuracy, including model validation techniques and “human in the loop” quality checks, could address some of these risks and concerns.
1) it is necessary to develop mechanisms that consider the potential for the double use — beneﬁcial and harmful —of ai research and ais development (whether public or private) in order to limit harmful uses.
 bridge knowledge sharing and dialogue between government and private sectors.
“seeing without knowing: limitations of the transparency ideal and its application to algorithmic accountability.” new media & society, december 13, 2016.
public agencies urgently need a practical framework to assess automated decision systems and to ensure public accountability
to understand human expression, tone, emotion and the subtleties of human interaction.
nixon, this may have been influenced by concerns over public health and the suffering induced by abuses of illegal drugs.
• sharkey, n. “towards a principle for the human supervisory control of robot weapons.” politica and società 2 (2014): 305–324.
whether this is a good or bad use of ai is left to the reader’s wisdom.
james tonn, left and floyd marinescu are among the 100 canadian ceos who have signed an open letter to premier doug ford, imploring him to reverse his decision to kill the basic income pilot project.
in most corporate settings, employees do not have clear consent on how their personal information (including health and other data) is used by employers.
muriel pénicaud, minister of labour, france: the nature of work is changing, as are skills; and to stay current it is necessary to continue to develop skills throughout one’s life.
the standard addresses a shift in the big data era that businesses must stay ahead of to keep a competitive edge.
in 2014, the city of new york released, in response to a freedom of informa on request, data about all 173 million taxi rides in new york in 2013, with the taxi iden  ers pseudonymised, and exact spa otemporal data about start- and endpoints, as well as fares, given.
3) before being placed on the market and whether they are offered for charge or for free, ais must meet strict reliability, security, and integrity requirements and be subjected to tests that do not put people’s lives in danger, harm their quality of life, or negatively impact their reputation or psychological integrity.
p7006 addresses concerns raised about machines making decisions without human input.
“technophobes” – people who fear robots, artificial intelligence and new technology that they don’t understand – are much more likely to be afraid of losing their jobs to technology and to suffer anxiety-related mental health issues, a baylor university study found.
as i write this, i’m going to use the terms “artificial intelligence” (ai) and “machine learning” (ml) more or less interchangeably.
to human and artificial agents.
• ieee p7005tm, standard for transparent employer data governance is designed
over the last few years, ai has evolved at a breakneck pace, reaching a point where it can now provide true business value.
“using stories to teach human values to artificial agents.” proceedings of the 2nd international workshop on ai, ethics and society, phoenix, arizona, 2016.
in digital or virtual realms, however, our personas are fluid — individuals can be avatars in gaming situations or take on a different tone in various social networking settings.
more recently, public debate has centered on the impact
machine learning, and artificial intelligence more broadly, impact a wider array of human rights, such as the right to privacy, the right to freedom of expression, participation in cultural life, the right to remedy, and the right to life.
[1] l. pangrazio, exploring provocation as a re- search method in the social sciences.
one reason for this may be that the requirements on q1 and q2 are likely to be less stringent for social good than for the common good.
an estimated 250 million people worldwide have moderate to severe visual impairment, and about
dr. ian kerr, university of ottawa, chair cifar ai & society council
better than a minimum wage hike or working tax credit, a basic income would also compensate for unpaid forms of work such as caregiving, community services and entrepreneurship, the letter says.
of harm because they can be embedded with demographic data that serve as proxies for particular groups or reinforce past harms that can have economic or identity-based impacts.
principle 4 — transparency
• governments should enforce transparency related to data collection, data ownership, data stewardship, and data usage and disclosure.
of ai networking issues for the realization of wisdom network society, (wins)], japanese ministry of internal affairs and communications, the information technology industry council’s ai policy principles, intel’s artificial intelligence — the public policy opportunity, ieee european public policy initiative’s position statement, artificial intelligence: calling on policy makers
but according to ibm documents dated from last summer, the supercomputer has frequently given bad advice, like when it suggested a cancer patient with severe bleeding be given a drug that could cause the bleeding to worsen.
8 frank pasquale, the black box society: the secret algorithms that control money and information (harvard university press, 2015).
and third, considerable work is ongoing to help mitigate the risk of harm from these systems.
the initial disclosure provides a strong foundation for building public trust through appropriate levels of transparency, while subsequent requests can solicit further information or the presentation of
in the same way that companies are doing privacy impact assessments for how individual data is used, companies need to create employee data impact assessments to deal with the
furthermore, organizations have increasingly emphasized the unique capabilities of their employees as a form of human capital (lepak & snell, 1999) and a source of competitive advantage.
ed breen, dowdupont chief executive officer: “we are in the process of separating dowdupont into leading global companies in agriculture, materials science and specialty products.our guiding principles through this process clearly align with the key value drivers outlined by the embankment project for inclusive capitalism (epic), which we applaud and champion.this focus will enable us to build strong, independent companies that each have world-class talent, the ability to drive innovation, a commitment to sustainability and serving communities, and corporate governance that will drive value for all key stakeholders.”
main exper ze is in spa o-temporal da- tabases and analysis methods, privacy, big data analysis for movement data.
ai entity should never mimics other human entity behaviors.
ieee believes in good faith that the information in this publication is accurate as of its publication date; such information is subject to change without notice.
• ensure that not only the worker whose job is concerned benefits from training programs, but also any employee in the company so everyone has the chance to be up to speed with technical changes, even if one’s job
in an aia process, agencies must  rst publish their own de nition of “automated decision system” that is both practical and appropriate for its particular context.
when people do not have agency over their identities political participation is impossible, and without political participation ethics will be decided by others.
processes should take into account the tension between data-driven innovation and the principle of data minimization.
although scientists have been working on the technology and heralding its numerous anticipated benefits for more than four decades, it’s only in the past few years that society’s ai dreams have come to fruition.
to best honor human rights, society must assure the safety and security of a/is so that they are designed and operated in a way that benefits humans:
many jobs will continue to require uniquely human skills that ai and machines cannot replicate, such as creativity, collaboration, abstract and systems thinking, complex communication, and the ability to work in diverse environments.
we must set the foundation for a concerted effort on an enterprise approach to fully realize the potential of the data held within the goa.
where these factors are not given equal priority to fiscal metrics of success, technologists risk causing or contributing to negative and irreversible harms to our planet and population.
and linkedin is working with the national association of state workforce agencies to produce job search curriculum for its network of 2,500 publicly managed job centers in the united states.
robots for use in the sex industry may help lessen human trafficking and the spread of stis, but there
on credit or employment apply broadly to digital products and services or their use in decision-making, whether they explicitly mention ai capabilities or not.
and recommend best practices and regulatory requirements (such as data minimization, accountability, transparency, options such as opt-in, opt-out, encryption) to be embedded into the system.
in sum, an ethical considera on of the modelling and repor ng of vehicle data and pa erns, even if restricted to what data are to be included and how, what informa on is to be kept con den al or disclosed, can reach far beyond the tra- di onal ques ons discussed under data protec on and data privacy.
the same a/is that parses and analyzes data should also help individuals understand how personal information can be used.
• all engineering work should conform to the requirements of international law, including both ihl and ihrl, as well as national and local laws.
• boyd, d. “transparency ≠ accountability.” data & society: points, november 29, 2016.
for example, our “farmbeats” project uses advanced technology, existing connectivity infrastructure, and the power of the cloud and machine learning to enable data-driven farming at low cost.
and unanticipated harms — to themselves, the system’s users, and the general public — as well as complex moral and ethical considerations, including even the moral weight of certain
solutions are likely to start with external data such as longevity as a telecom customer, and the model is then augmented against a client’s actual product borrowing performance.
reinforcement learning and content generation, while nascent capabilities, have potential for social use
concluding judgment must therefore acknowledge the strength of the verification technique used, and the expressed confidence in the evaluation (and in the a/is itself) must be qualified by this level of strength.
the spot system, built by researchers from the university of southern california’s center for artificial intelligence in society and piloted by the organization air shepherd, automates the process of detecting poachers in infrared video feeds, freeing park rangers for other tasks and increasing the reliability of surveillance (see illustration, “how ai can be deployed to catch wildlife poachers”).36
where there is a material risk of harm, we will proceed only where we believe that the benefits substantially outweigh the risks, and will incorporate appropriate safety constraints.
of scientists that hold double and interdisciplinary degrees, there remains a vacuum for the wider understanding of classical ethics theories in the interdisciplinary setting.
data ethics poses organizational challenges that cannot be resolved by familiar compliance regimes alone.
gomez, huici, seyle, and swann (2009) found that individuals seek to verify both their negative and positive identities, while gomez, huici, and morales (2004; cited in gomez et al., 2009) showed that intergroup rela- tions can be improved when out-group members (individuals who do not share the same group membership) verify an individual’s identities.
box 1. building a library of use cases for social good to understand the comparative relevance of ai across domains (continued)
never in the history of humanity have we allowed a machine to autonomously decide who should live and who should die, in a fraction of a second, without real-time supervision.
in addition to rethinking how workers are trained and remain prepared for work, it is important to consider what happens to workers as traditional models of employment that typically include bene ts and protections change signi cantly.
this would open up the possibility of much larger fleets of drones, or drone air forces at much lower cost — democratizing the power to bomb people from the sky.
others have already critiqued the concept of the smart city by raising issues such as data ownership (when smart city solutions are owned by the private sector) and legal liability (when automated decisions result in harm).
what is more, these fundamental knowledges are hard to acquire once one has joined the labour market, so we should focus on the student population now, and we should create opportunities for workers to seek a higher education.
these capabilities are relevant in use cases where imagery is available and from which useful information can be extracted to solve a problem of social good.
microsoft has made a substantial investment to help the markle foundation build this marketplace.53
examples of organizations dealing with such trade-offs can for instance be found in the security considerations of the internet engineering task force (ietf).
it goes to the heart of our hopes and fears about the future of humanity in the face of ai.
while prior exclusion research has focused on social rejection, thus emphasizing belongingness needs, we argue that working with colleagues who treat unique characteristics (e.g., perspectives, knowledge, or informa- tion) as unimportant or irrelevant should contribute likewise to feelings of exclusion.
recommendations from the study should draft proposals to frame debates in legislatures and help lawmakers start developing appropriate legislation to govern a/is applied to genomes for the well-being of society.
researchers and entrepreneurs can also play a role in making sure ai benefits the whole of society.
in particular, teams should develop, share, and contribute to ai safety test environments and tools and techniques for “boxing” a/is (see babcock et al.
bottleneck in the societal problem and decision to deploy ai (or not) made: comparison of value of ai
while just over half the use cases in our library can leverage solutions that can be created by talent with relatively lower levels of ai experience, the remaining use cases have added complexity due to a combination of factors, depending on the specific case.
and, in the long term, mckelvey wants to see privacy laws used to slow down the development of ai, or at least to help make it more transparent to those most affected by it.
yet our understanding of how to build, motivate, and maintain successful partnerships across sectors around data science for social good is still emerging as different configurations are being tested.
for example, if ai misdiagnoses patients in hospitals without a safety mechanism in place, particularly if the systems are directly connected to treatment processes, the outcomes could be catastrophic.
group privacy and big data analytics in the developing world.
the goal of the ieee p7010 standard is not to create a new metric but to directly link ai design and manufacturing to existing, established indicators.
[40] a. chouldechova, fair prediction with disparate impact: a study of bias in recidivism prediction instruments.
belief that a/is are generally creating social benefits rather than, for example, technological unemployment.
we believe in the potential for basic income to replace inefficient welfare programs, encourage work, and eliminate the welfare trap.
to illustrate the breadth of areas where ai could be applied for social good, this section goes into more specific detail about six cases.
ais must not be used to imitate or alter a person’s appearance, voice, or other individual characteristics in order to damage one’s reputation or manipulate other people.
the development of ai should offer guarantees respecting personal privacy and allowing people who use it to access their personal data as well as the kinds of information that any algorithm might use.
personal data and individual access control reframing autonomous weapons systems economics/humanitarian issues
), as a rule society understands how to apply the legal concepts of identity in real-life situations.
“ai offers immense opportunities, but it also raises unprecedented and often unpredictable ethics challenges for society and humanity,” said susan liautaud.
the goal of the project was to promote data sharing among the various enterprises and nonprofit organizations, including businesses and cultural venues.
evelyn forget, a university of manitoba health economist, was one of 40 academics and researchers hired by the previous liberal government to evaluate ontario’s basic income pilot project.
organizations may also have difficulty interpreting ai model results.
could use aias to reasonably target their requests to systems that were enumerated and described, saving public records sta  signi cant time and resources.
• cooke, m.. “a space of one’s own: autonomy, privacy, liberty.” philosophy & social criticism, 25, no.
this independent mgi initiative is based on our own research, the experience of our mckinsey colleagues more broadly, and the mckinsey high tech practice’s research collaboration with google.org and ai researchers including at google ai.
“when things go wrong, the programmers are hiding behind a lack of transparency, saying ‘nobody can understand these systems.’ ultimately, that’s not going to be an acceptable answer.it’s an expression of human dignity, of human autonomy, not to have decisions made about us which have no reviewability,” he adds.
they’ve seen the movies, they’ve read the science fiction, and for many of them, ai represents not only threat — ranging from the potential loss of jobs to autonomous weaponization — but an existential crisis that will lead to a day of reckoning, when machines rise up against people.
although research shows that identity-conscious practices are positively related to the employment status of protected groups in organizations (konrad & linnehan, 1995), research has also highlighted backlash against such prac- tices and diversity management programs in general (see linnehan & konrad, 1999).
human rights law is a universally ascribed system of values based on the rule of law which provides established means to ensure that rights, including the rights to equality and non-discrimination, are upheld.
ai-based personal agents, for example, can exhibit user awareness by con rming and, as necessary, correcting understanding of the user’s intent, and by recognizing and adjusting to the people, places and events that are most important to users.
designing cps for operation in proximity to humans means that current safety regulations need to be updated to ensure that individuals are not harmed and that the desired benefits outweigh the potential unintended consequences.
then we’re likely to be in a better position for governments to create legal and regulatory rules for everyone to follow.
a user should be able to override his/her personal agents should he/she decide that the service offered is worth the conditions imposed.
ai will be deployed in different ways depending on the domain, capability, barriers, and risk profiles of specific use cases.
• the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights, 1966.
data by itself does not possess value; the ability to process and use this information in a coherent manner for decision making and analysis and to support daily operations is where benefits are realized.
how ai is developed and used will have a signilcant impact on society for many years to come.
it may behoove business leaders to comb the sections above and determine areas of focus (such as algorithmic transparency, or use of data for children and students, etc…) that may become pressing for their business, or important in the minds of their stakeholders.
ai systems should also be designed so that private information is used in accordance with privacy standards and protected from bad actors who might seek to steal private information or in ict harm.
the 5 domains where many ai capabilities are relevant
• do pharmaceutical and insurance companies have the right to use and profit from your health data predictions/modeling without giving you any benefits back in return?
perhaps this is the goal of the libertarians of silicon valley — to create new monopolies that are free from regulation, and free from public accountability.
the grant agreement (from which this task is tak- en) further describes that this role com- plements that of the ethics commi ee, whose task is to “guarantee the good governance of data and the research in- tegrity and academic ethics” as well as to ensure “compliance with ethical and legal framework in case addi onal da- tasets will become available during the life me of the project”.
foremost among these in our view are technologies related to the design, development, and engineering
design and testing should also anticipate and protect against the potential for unintended system interactions or bad actors to in uence operations, such as through cyberattacks.
we assessed individual variations by further analysing the responses of the subgroup of moral machine users (n = 492,921) who completed the optional demographic survey on age, education, gender, income, and political and religious views, to assess whether preferences were modulated by these six characteristics.
an understanding of these potential harms is beginning to be incorporated into governmental thinking on ai.6 indeed, systematic research into the ethical implications of ai is progressing steadily both inside and outside of academia.
2) c  ase studies   in the technology domain, including design and engineering, that can be analyzed as a form of ethical practice and skill development.
the first edition of the law section for ethically aligned design noted that the early stages in development of autonomous and intelligent systems (a/is) have given rise to many complex ethical problems that translate directly and indirectly into discrete legal challenges.
however, the intersection is large and relevant, and i regard such ai robots as typical representa- tives of what the asilomar principles call “highly au- tonomous ai systems”.
risks posed by machine learning technologies37.’ ai ethics researcher abhishek gupta mentions we should fold ai systems ‘into the purview of existing legislative and regulatory bodies to allow for certification of the quality of outputs that can be expected from these systems.’ in its forthcoming ai strategy, germany mentions the importance of ‘ensuring the transparency, traceability and verifiability of [ai] systems, to more effectively protect against distortions, discrimination, manipulation or other improper use, especially when deploying algorithm-based forecasting and decision-making systems38.’ finally, the u.k. estimates in its ai review that one of the ‘main ways to address these kinds of biases is to ensure that developers are drawn from diverse gender, ethnic and socio-economic backgrounds, and are aware of, and adhere to, ethical codes of conduct’ since a ‘diverse group of programmers reduces the risk of bias embedding into the algorithm and enables a fairer and higher quality output39.’ it also believes we should increase accountability (especially when it comes to public algorithms) by assessing mechanisms that ensure people are still involved in decision-making, and providing
"where a type of processing in particular using new technologies, and taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, is likely to result in high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller shall, prior to processing, carry out an assessment of the impact of the envisaged processing operations on the protection of personal data."
unless we stop it artificial intelligence is now an arms race.
[14] world economic forum, artificial intelligence for the common good.
who gets to decide those rules anyway, setting a moral path for the industry and — considering tech companies’ enormous power — the world.
this is a lesson learned from the history of the cambridge analytica case, in which ideas from an academic project in which social media were mined to predict personality [60] were later supposedly used for psychometrically micro-targeted election advertis- ing [61].
30 in santa clara, california, for instance, a law passed in 2016 requires the local board of supervisors to explicitly approve new surveillance technology before moving forward with its use (nicole a. ozer, “santa clara county passes landmark law to shut down secret surveillance,” aclu of northern california, june 8, 2016, https://www.
the design of bespoke algorithms for robotics is another frontier direction which exploits the ability of robots to both explore
some use cases in our library are better suited to analytics techniques other than those that involve deep learning, since analytics are often less complex to deploy than those involving ai techniques.
microsoft offers curriculum and certi cation programs to help people develop digital skills through programs like imagine academy, youthspark and linkedin learning.51 this is important because digital skills are critical in all job clusters.
where the matter has been addressed by governments, such as in the eu’s general data protection regulation or france’s loi informatique et libertés, that precautionary approach has been rendered as a right for there always to be a “human in the loop”: decisions that affect legal rights are prohibited from being made solely by means of the automated processing of data.
b) have due regard for the legitimate rights of third parties.
industry data uses have led to individual exposure to intangible and tangible privacy harms, for example, mistaken identity.
many people suspected that this issue was the same one as the one that caused hp’s face-tracking webcams to not work on black people six years earlier: that the training data for “faces” had been composed exclusively of white people.
stakeholders can visualize important entities in the world as agents with different goals that receive observations and possible rewards from the environment and make actions that could have positive and negative impacts to the well-being of different agents.
• oecd, “labor market programs: expenditure and participants,” oecd employment and labor market statistics (database), 2016.
we identify emerging challenges in each of these areas and make recommendations to ensure that the benefits of ai will be shared broadly, and that risks can be identified and mitigated.
all use cases in this domain in our library have existing case studies and use only analytics, though nlp and structured deep learning would likely add value.
in 1973, the united states department of health, education and welfare (hew) issued a comprehensive report analyzing a host of societal concerns arising from the increasing computerization of information and the growing repositories of personal data held by federal agencies.13 the report espoused a series of important principles — the fair information practices — that sought to delineate fundamental privacy ideals regardless
reducing society to a series of numbers and ruling it through algorithmic procedures is an old pipe dream that still drives human ambitions.
attempts at establishing broad ethical codes for intelligent machines, such as the asilomar ai principles29, often recommend that machine ethics should be aligned with human values.
the philosophical debate around the concepts “author” and “artist” with regard to created works is not a new one in the humanities or the legal world.
broadly speaking, the kind of “computational intelligence” that computers can provide will have a signi cant impact in almost any  eld where intelligence itself has a role to play.
to come up with the risk pro les, we tagged individual use cases from low to high for each of the  ve categories: the risk of bias; the risk of privacy violation; the risk of unsafe use of
as a result, says andrew ng, a highly trained and specialised radiologist may now be in greater danger of being replaced by a machine than his own executive assistant: “she does so many different things that i don’t see a machine being able to automate everything she does any time soon.”
the public and private sectors must also invest in new educational delivery models.
data protection directive 95/46/ecl vi, defines personal data as “any information relating to
additional research to enhance “de- identi cation” techniques and ongoing discussions about how to balance the risks of re-identi cation against the social bene ts will be important.
the growing volumes of private sector data (mobile phones, financial transactions, retail, logistics) hold unique promise in developing more robust and actionable disease-monitoring systems that can be empowered by a/is.
at microsoft, we imagine a world where your personal digital assistant cortana talks with your calendar while you sleep.
the west (however it may be defined) is an individualistic society, arguably more so than much of the rest of the world, and thus in some aspects should be even less collectively defined than say, “eastern” ethical traditions.
it may ultimately be the case that confidence in the administration of justice would be compromised by the use of ai — but that is an empirical question, to be determined in consultation with the public.
because the regulatory, social, and engineering terrains are so unsettled, organizations engaged in data analytics require collaborative, routine and transparent practices for ethical governance.
mr. zuckerberg’s team has portrayed the russians’ ability to manipulate social media for their political project as a technical problem that can be fixed with engineering.
2) the intimacy of thoughts and emotions must be strictly protected from ais and daas uses capable of causing harm, especially uses that impose moral judgments on people or their lifestyle choices.
the view is that the types of decisions that have historically been made by judges and state-sanctioned tribunals should be reserved exclusively to human adjudicators, or at the very least be subject to human oversight, although this would limit the advantages of speed and lowered cost that ai might deliver.
the deliverable will look at the impact of ai on european fundamental rights including privacy, dignity, and non- discrimination, and suggest best practices to ensure the ai development and use is aligned with our core values.
two thousand surveys were mailed to an organizational development interest group of a national human resources professional association.
data subjects may not have an appropriate interface to investigate data controller uses and processes.
the development of more effective ai services requires the use of data — often as much relevant data as possible.
it is difficult to describe the breadth and depth of knowledge that was brought to the contributions, since that would require an in-depth understanding of all the domains of all the papers, or at least a vali- dated bibliometric method.
thus, it can be said that a society in which several corporations (or a single corporation) become extremely powerful thanks to ai, allowing them to control and exploit people, would be a dystopian society.
personal data and individual access control section, in ethically aligned design: a vision for prioritizing human well-being with artificial intelligence and autonomous systems, version 1. ieee, 2016.
• japan: the act on the protection of personal information was amended in 2016. the act precisely defines the definition of personal information; however, the concept of privacy is not explicitly stated.
she envisioned code to use english language-based instructions, and her programming language design work led to the creation of cobol, used to this day.
people are rightly terrified of such devices, and would be even more terrified if they heard more of the stories of people who already live under the perpetual threat of death coming suddenly out of a clear sky.
the second layer is that of domain experts, i.e., the people who master the application domains of ai.
how can we grow our prosperity through automation while maintaining people’s resources and purpose?
in an ideal world, these interactions would provide an opportunity for cross-cultural understanding and cohesion.
this secondary use of data has greater potential to impact policy and decision making once the data is able to flow through the system and be available when needed.
and community are great goods.
as the development of ai applications expands and accelerates, it is urgent and important for stakeholders to come together from all sectors, and across borders, to better understand what accountability means in an ai-enabled world and the implications for societal trust.
indeed,  nding solutions that apply ai to speci c societal goals could be accelerated if technology players dedicated some of their resources and encouraged their ai experts to take on projects that bene t the common good.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 43
[72] v. dignum, f. dignum, societal challenges need social agents.
number of use cases where some form of ai has been deployed
by inviting comments for version 2 of ethically aligned design, the ieee global initiative provides the opportunity to bring together multiple voices from the related scientific and engineering communities with the general public to identify and find broad consensus on pressing ethical and social issues and candidate recommendations regarding development and implementations of these technologies.
this was, in part, because of his positioning within the academy and the fact that researchers at universities are subject to ethical oversight by an institutional review board (irb) with a mandate to ensure research participants are not incurring harm, and that both their rights and their data are being protected.
human contact in domains requiring social interaction is often indispensable and therefore not replaceable by ai.
good regulation can take many different forms, and appropriate regulatory responses are context- dependent.
[86] a. morton, b. berendt, s. gu ̈rses, j. pierson, “tool clinics”: embracing multiple perspectives in privacy research and privacy-sensitive design.
they have led to a better understanding of the role of businesses in protection and promotion
this shifts the definitional core of “social good” to the domains of projects (such as education, health, energy and transportation) and to the actors (governments and nonprofits) who are likely to be the ones to define project goals and/or who control and provide the data.
have published more than 22,000 papers in all areas of study — from the environment to health, and from privacy to security.
thus, many workers in the middle years find that their experience has no asset.” supervisors were also hit hard because they were losing people — and the tasks those people did — to actually manage.
individuals are often not given agency or personal tools to express, invoke, or revoke consent to the terms of service or privacy and/ or data use policies in their contracts.
43 other ai research we have conducted suggests that ai’s application could be unequal, with a divide opening up between countries and companies.
while it’s clear that the use of ai is becoming more prominent, not all companies have the it budgets needed to recruit the talent required to build ai-fueled applications in-house.
he recognizes that, where they remain popular, churches, sports teams, unions and other civic groups deliver the social benefits that he wants facebook to generate: “they provide all of us with a sense of purpose and hope; moral validation that we are needed and part of something bigger than ourselves; comfort that we are not alone and a community is looking out for us; mentorship, guidance and personal development; a safety net; values, cultural norms and accountability; social gatherings, rituals and a way to meet new people; and a way to pass time.”
goals for educational attainment should include outcomes related to employment, skills and advancement.
moreover, there’s a reason the original model derived those splits; it came from analysis of millions of written texts from all over the world.
three of these factors (i.e., fairness, representation, leader commitment to diversity) were conceptually distinct and emerged from the factors revealed in study 2. the remaining factors were identical in that they were represented by items relating to employee involvement and diversity-related outcomes such as learning, growth, and flexibility.
while it is understood organizations globally are aware of the need to incorporate sustainability measures as part of their efforts, the reality of bottom line, quarterly driven shareholder growth is a traditional metric prioritized within society at large.
justice is associated with high-quality social exchange relationships (masterson, lewis, goldman, & taylor, 2000; moorman, blakely, & niehoff, 1998; wayne, shore, bommer, & tetrick, 2002) that involve mutual investment by both parties and concern for the interests of the other party in the relationship (shore, tetrick, lynch, & barksdale, 2006).
if the ford government truly believes that basic income will discourage work, then you should allow the pilot program to continue so can have data on your side.
in 2002, updated in 2012, that addresses the obligations of social science researchers working in digital domains at a macro-level.13 this document is notable for the extensive list of questions internet researchers should address.
over time, this data can be used to construct analyses such as the linkedin economic graph to understand supply and demand for
issues that arise when criminal enterprises and others use ai in ways that are objectionable and even harmful.
bringing together some 400 participants around the themes of cybersecurity, legal liability, moral psychology, the job market, the health system and the concept of "smart cities," the forum hosted a number of international luminaries, including université de montréal professor yoshua bengio and harvard university professor yoshai benkler.
a good recent example was in a technical paper about “word debiasing.” this was about a very popular ml model called word2vec which learned various relationships between the meanings of english words — for example, that “king is to man, as queen is to woman.” the authors of this paper found that it contained quite a few examples of social bias: for example, it would also say that “computer programmer is to man, as homemaker is to woman.” the paper is about a technique they came up with for eliminating that bias.
section 5 will validate the importance of the four lead questions via an exploratory survey of 99 contri- butions to recent conferences on ai and data science “for social good” or “for good”, the notions that are currently most similar to ai for the common good
successful use of ai also depends on access to data, the systemic embedding of ai technologies in complex products, services and business models, and a well-founded trust for the new technology among the general public which is based on transparency of the processes used and an understanding of how it works and why it is beneficial.
6. principle of privacy
these findings also point to a possibility consistent with our inclusion framework that being a token is not necessarily a negative experience; tokens could be valued for their uniqueness and feel a sense of belonging.
“the project of creating value-aligned ai is perhaps one of the most important things we will ever do,” said the future of life institute.
• marwick, a., “are there limits to online free speech?” data & society: points, january 5, 2017.
in a world of ambient intelligence, 15–41.
four contribu- tions made proposals for the processes of working to- wards the social good, ranging from dssg projects via non-profits to un agencies tasked with identify- ing sdgs in national development plans.
however, some organizations have begun to rely on a broader set of programs and initiatives including employee participation, communication strategies, and community relations (wentling & palma-rivas, 2000), which emphasize the removal of barriers that block employees from using the full range of their skills and competencies in organizations (harvey, 1999).
as the eu introduces legislation and guidelines for personal data use, more regions may follow suit.
1. in general, deception is acceptable in an affective agent when it is used for the benefit of the person being deceived, not for the agent itself.
• united nations, guiding principles on business and human rights: implementing the united nations “protect, respect and remedy” framework, new york and geneva: un, 2011.
the application of classical buddhist ethical traditions to ai design.
she did not refer to technical control alone: “humans can and should also be in command of if, when and how ai is used in our daily lives – what tasks we transfer to ai, how transparent it is, if it is to be an ethical player.
nearly every  eld of human endeavor could bene t from ai systems designed to complement human intelligence.
“imagining a non-biological machine as a legal person.” ai & society 22 (2008): 403–417.
thus, artificial intelligence can create new risks and exacerbate social and economic inequalities.
industries that control or generate data, including satellite and telecommunications companies and major tech firms with social media or other platforms, can accelerate their involvement.
1 this approach is rooted in internationally recognized economic, social, cultural, and political rights.
as with any technology deployment for social good, the scaling up and successful application of ai for societal benefit will depend on the willingness of relevant groups of stakeholders, including collectors and generators of data as well as governments and ngos, to engage.
3 james vincent, “google uses deepmind ai to cut data center energy bills,” the verge, july 21, 2016, https://www.
individuals control the use of their profile information: the profile owner alone has general right to review, use, create, modify, destroy, loan, lease, sell and demand that users relinquish information registered in their profile.
the model proposes that leaders’ procedurally fair treatment conveys to individual members that they have a respected position in the group.
in the european union’s general data protection regulation, automated pro ling is de ned as “any form of automated processing of personal data consisting of the use of personal data to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to a natural person, in particular to analyse or predict aspects concerning that natural person’s performance at work, economic situation, health, personal preferences, interests, reliability, behaviour, location or movements.”36
when systems are built that could impact the safety or well-being of humans, it is not enough to just presume that a system works.
as mentioned above, humans will want to understand an a/is’s decisions and actions, especially the morally significant ones.
moreover, what are the implications for the ethical development and use of mr applications designed for mental health assessment and treatment in view of the potential potency of this media format compared to traditional methodologies?
regulation in a democratic society generally centres on the principle of preventing or mitigating harm.
2. we recommend that the user be able to recognize and distinguish between different types of nudges, including ones that seek to promote beneficial social manipulation (e.g., healthy eating) versus others where the aim is psychological manipulation or the exploitation of an imbalance of power (e.g., for commercial purposes).
one is that the courts took the ai model far too seriously, using it as a direct factor in sentencing decisions, skipping human judgment, with far more confidence than any model should warrant.
if this continues and we lose common understanding, then even if we eliminated all misinformation, people would just emphasize different sets of facts to fit their polarized opinions.
more than a third of study participants fear technology that could lead to job loss more than they do romantic rejection, public speaking and police brutality, baylor study finds
while many other insights can be drawn by mapping use cases, domains, and capabilities, we will describe some of our findings from this cross-domain view.
and understanding regarding personal information.
recently, many ai researchers and practitioners have embarked on research visions that involve doing ai for “good”.
• the commoditization of the workforce also has the potential to reduce access to social insurance, career development and social interaction, which might otherwise strengthen innovation and economic value.
“the 10 year challenge is a user-generated meme that started on its own, without our involvement,” the social media giant wrote on twitter.
human labor, and no doubt policy will need to be crafted to enable agility in the workforce along with models for how humans work and thrive in increasingly virtual environments populated by artificial agents.
this paper discusses ai and how companies new to the space can learn a great deal from early adopters who have invested billions into ai and are now beginning to reap a range of benefits.
the opposite and tend to consider people that do not use small talk as unfriendly, uncooperative, rude, arrogant, or ignorant.
this transparency could include not only the constituent algorithms, but also information about the identity of private actors behind the data.
disclaimer: while we have provided recommendations in this document, it should be understood these do not represent a position or the views of ieee but the informed opinions of committee members providing insights designed to provide expert directional guidance regarding a/is.
the object model for personal data should be associated with that person, and under the control of that person utilizing a personalized privacy a/is or algorithmic guardian.
brandon ballinger et al., deepheart: semi-supervised sequence learning for cardiovascular risk prediction, 32nd aaai conference on artificial intelligence, new orleans, la, february 2–7, 2018, aaai.org/ocs/index.
i worry about these and we have studied them extensively, but i also worry there are even more powerful effects we must mitigate around sensationalism and polarization leading to a loss of common understanding.
the advances in ai will lead to a wide range of applications and the private and public side are investing substantially in the development and use of ai technologies.
and some people (e.g., gary marcus or judea pearl) say no, no, these bottom up stats are not enough, we are forgetting what is actually the real hallmark of our pre-frontal cortex, our ability to infer causal relationships between phenomena a and phenomena b, and it is through this appreciation of explanation and cause that we can intervene and shape the world to our ends or even fix injustices, free ourselves from the messy social structures of the past and open up the ability to exercise normative agency together in the future (i’m actually in favor of this kind of thinking).
this allows social workers to further study these cases and could help prevent social exclusion.
pineau is part of a faction in ai research trying to improve the field’s diversity—motivated in part by fears that failing to do so increases the chance ai systems have harmful effects on the world.
that bring together industry, nonpro t organizations and ngos can serve as forums for the process of devising and promulgating best practices.
excessive storage and data logging will inevitably create a target for law enforcement (think the alexa case).
thus ethics in buddhism is concerned exclusively with how to attain the goal of liberation, or freedom.
ai is a cross-sectorial technology that is poised to disrupt all aspects of life, economy and society.
in addition it will be critical that we acknowledge the broad concerns that have been raised about the impact of these technologies on jobs and the nature of work, and take steps
this schema could help to assess, in different cases, the well-being metrics that the a/is should take into account and the well-being metrics of the impacts that a/is actions could and can cause, related to important elements in the world like: people, products, organizations, climate, countries, etc.
additionally, the rapid rise of consumer-facing digital platforms such as google, apple, facebook, and amazon — all currently among the top five most valuable companies in the world — is a testament to how quickly individuals have adapted to digital change.
the deployment of interconnected autonomous working machines in complicated data environments touches upon a number of legal areas, such as accountability, liability, data ownership and privacy.
how to strike the right balance between the values of novelty and accountability?
ai amplifying human ingenuity
to be fair, research and funding are headed toward ai in canada, with the federal government alone pledging $125 million in the 2017 budget.
these con- tributions already start from the assumption that the goal of the respective scientific project is a legitimate goal for the social/common good (“the aim is not to promote user interaction but to collect useful data for their scientific goals” [69]).
as a final example, people who trust flying in airplanes are trusting appropriately, because by all measures, air travel is a very trustworthy mode of transportation.
but, because such income would be useful only for purchasing products and services that have resisted ai production, trading would be consigned to niche markets operated through blockchain networks.
such a mobile application would capture images of the environment that often include other individuals or private data, for example pictures of credit cards, and may also rely on training data that could include private information.
in addition, a key value for the use of well-being metrics for a/is technologists comes in the form of predictive modeling (forecasting outcomes based on data analysis and probabilities), either for unintended consequences, or as a unique means
on the ability of human operators to forestall negative consequences via the decisions over which they retain effective control, it is important to be precise about the control of specific functions delegated to a given system, as well as the ways in which control over those functions are shared between human operators and aws.
selection for autonomous social robots.” proceedings of the 24th international symposium on robot and human interactive communication, ro-man 2015 (2015): 492–497.
for example, in economics, something is a common good if no-one can be excluded from “consuming the good”, regardless of whether it is a benefit or not.
in this comment, we raise concerns regarding two of the principles included in the montreal declaration for responsible ai, namely privacy and democracy.
in particular, they warned that most workers in transport and logistics (such as taxi and delivery drivers) and office support (such as receptionists and security guards) “are likely to be substituted by computer capital”, and that many workers in sales and services (such as cashiers, counter and rental clerks, telemarketers and accountants) also faced a high risk of computerisation.
there is rising awareness of the potential impacts of ai on the world of work.
on its own, in just a few hours of self-play, it achieved a level of skill that took human beings 1,500 years to attain.
when properly utilized, these metrics could provide an opportunity to test and monitor a/is for unintended negative consequences that could diminish human well-being.
thus, the construct validity of the measure included here may also be strengthened by additional research to demonstrate its discriminant and convergent validity as well as the existence of a nomological network of relationships with other variables (hinkin, 1995).
if ai develops like other technologies, most of these benefits will flow to the country that builds the first good ecosystem.
this idea is applied to individuals as potential holders of knowledge, and it also impinges on the idea of the common good: “the more knowledge society has, the better”.
• ensure clear embedded lines of accountability in the design, deployment, and operation of weapons.
we encourage increased efforts across the public, private and civil sectors to expand these discussions to help  nd solutions.
from a societal point of view, we sought to identify key problems that are known to the social-sector community and determine where ai could aid efforts to resolve them.
in addition, the author gratefully acknowledges the workplace diversity network and national conference for community and justice for their financial and administrative support on this project.
a woman named christina was diagnosed with a rare disorder called epidermolysis bullosa -- and now she's a member of a group that connects 2,400 people around the world so none of them have to suffer alone.
as the exchange of a/is related data regarding an individual (via personalized algorithms, in conjunction with affective sensors measuring and influencing emotion, etc.)
specifically, we argue that uniqueness will provide opportunities for improved group performance when a unique individual is an accepted member of the group and the group values the particular unique characteristic (“inclusion” cell in figure 1).
ai explainability—i.e., the ability to see “inside” ai systems and understand what factors, weighting, and parameters determined any given outcome or decision—is a significant challenge particularly for regulated industries.
an opportunity for modeling scenarios and impacts that could improve the ability of a/is to frame specific societal benefits for their use.
ai to benefit people and society, the foundation for responsible robotics, ai & society, machine intelligence research institute, the international center for information ethics, the african center of excellence for information ethics, the 4tu center for ethics and technology, the center
this is all good work, but it’s important to recognize that the key step in this  — of identifying which male/female splits should be removed — was a human decision, not an automatic process.
an examination of our use case library suggests that this may be less of a risk in many of the applications of ai for social good.
such sandbox set-ups are also seen as promising to guide the identification of areas in which regulatory framework require adaption, to promote cooperation between companies within the framework of competition law as well as to support the creation of consortia that strengthen the global competitiveness of german and european business.
one of the major challenges of the initial education system and continuing training will be to equip individuals with skills that enable them to move beyond pre-established “frameworks and standards” and to develop a “systematic thinking” to analyze complex phenomena.
outcome: evidence-based policy and decision making integrated across the goa.
ais must not create individual preference proﬁles to inﬂuence the behavior of the individuals without their free and informed consent.
whether they're churches, sports teams, unions or other local groups, they all share important roles as social infrastructure for our communities.
an example is the use of face detection on surveillance footage to detect the presence of escaped criminals in a specific area.16 in education, emotion recognition on video or image data can be helpful in determining which specific students need extra attention and help.
because aws are delegated authority to use force in a particular situation, they are required to be attributable to the entity and human that deployed them.
while ai solutions are not a first nor an obvious choice for many social-sector organizations, a variety of stakeholders in the social and public sectors, in universities, and in a number
to do so, we calibrate our model to 2009, matching the gender-specific unemployment and labour force participation rates, as well as all the changes in demographics.
• ambiguity regarding whether and how proprietary a/is may be reverse engineered and evaluated by academics, journalists, and other researchers can stifle innovation and public safety.
we hope this survey of ai accountability is a useful resource for conference participants and others, stimulating future discussions and potential actions among g7 members, other countries and stakeholders worldwide.
government - create right environment to make ai business successful.
the first venue, the data science for social good con- ference, had multiple tracks, of which three appeared pertinent to the present questions and were there- fore analyzed: dssg fellowship project talks, short talks: research challenges in doing data science for social good and short talks: collaboration mod- els for social good.
seeking to further social good with technologies that are dangerous for humans would not only run counter to their core mission but could also spark a backlash, given the potentially large numbers of people involved.
as in case study 1, the base data are in principle publicly acces- sible.
furthermore, institutions should encourage a/is researchers and developers, who are concerned that their lab or team is not following safety best practices, to raise this to the attention of the wider a/is community without fear of retribution.
for example, he wonders whether driverless cars “should be programmed to swerve to avoid hitting a child running across the road, even if that will put their passengers at risk.” singer warns against thinking of ai as merely a machine that can beat a human in chess or go.
for many decades, technology significantly advanced the quality of life in our economy, moving us from a hard, short life of farming, to today a longer life of work in the service sector.
this rule is in clear agreement with social expectations assessed through the moral machine.
the access and quality data is seen as central pre-conditions and determining factor to increase the quality and outcome of ai algorithms.
in this section, i will analyze four specific charac- teristics of ai thinking and practice that challenge and may impede design for the common good: the problem-solving and solutionism mindset of the en- gineer, the integration of stakeholders, the role of knowledge, and side effects and dynamics.
my interest was sparked in hearing about the new report (and in joining the “well-being” committee on a number of phone calls and brainstorms), but i realized that if i wanted to cover this research, i’d have to find a way to do so that would bring insights and value to my business readers.
given that the municipal government, let alone the provincial or federal government, has little to no experience in the governance of ai, what can it do to engage or supervise this experiment?
out of a total of nearly €100bn in horizon europe funds for 2021-2027, the commission proposes to invest €15bn in ‘digital and industry’, which includes ai as a key activity involving diverse areas.
• asaro, p. m. “the liability problem for autonomous artificial agents.” palo alto, ca: association for the advancement of artificial intelligence, 2015.
networking reception/ ai showcasesai is driving a new business function: digital ethics
while it is tempting to develop a/is that can recognize, analyze, and even display facial expressions for social interaction, it should be noted that facial expressions may not be universal across cultures and that an ai system trained with a dataset from one culture may not be readily usable in another culture.
what are the criteria that lead people who are subject to justice system decisions to conclude that the process was “fair” or “just”?
2. the availability of the technology could disrupt intimate relationships between human beings.
indeed, in june 2018, ‘reaffirming the g7 innovation ministers’ statement on artificial intelligence adopted in montreal on march 28, 2018, canada and france announced their wish to promote ‘a vision of human-centric artificial intelligence grounded in human rights, inclusion, diversity, innovation and economic growth through
we also identify limiting factors and risks to be addressed and mitigated if the social impact potential is to
currently, few agencies are explicitly mandated to disclose anything about the systems they have in place or are planning to use.9 instead, impacted communities, the public at large, and governments are left to rely on what journalists, researchers, and public records requests have been able to expose.10
perception drives public response.
for the study of existential risk, the leverhulme center for the future of intelligence, the future of humanity institute, the japanese society
for example, some a/is already have real consequences to human safety or well- being, such as medical diagnosis ai systems, or driverless car autopilots; systems such as these are safety-critical systems.
this pattern is common across almost every industry.
verity harding (uk), co-lead– deepmind ethics & society
or ai, ieee p7002tm data privacy process is a standards working group still open to join focused on these larger issues of data protection required by the enterprise for individuals’ data usage.
legal frameworks such as the gdpr rely on the notion that data subjects must provide “freely given, specific, informed, and unambiguous” consent to certain data processing.
• while individuals may enjoy the ability of a/is to simulate humans in situations where they are pure entertainment, explicit permission and consent by users in the use of these systems is recommended, and the well- being impacts on users should be monitored, researched, and considered by the a/is community in an effort to provide services and goods that improve well-being.
group privacy and big data analy cs in the devel-
the standard will help provide clarity and recommendations both for how employees can share their information in a safe and trusted environment as well as how employers can align with employees in this process while still utilizing information needed for regular work flows.
algorithmic impact assessments o er a practical accountability framework combining agency review and public input
even in the more common instances in which harm is not inevitable, but just possible, autonomous vehicles will need to decide how to divide up the risk of harm between the different stakeholders on the road.
in order to keep up with the increasing demands of technology, citizens of all economic levels will need guaranteed access to their own personal ai technology—that is, technology that belongs to each individual citizen and works on that citizen's own behest and behalf.
today, sound detection is an important capability for use cases such as the exposure of illegal logging, diagnosis of medical or neurological conditions such as parkinson’s disease, predictive maintenance of public transportation systems, and providing adaptive learning to students.
• a/is designers and programmers must work closely with the end-users and target communities to ensure their design aims are aligned with the needs of the end-users and target communities.
another challenge for accountable ai is that ai is portable across borders.
accountable to the adm im/it committee the enterprise data analytics steering committee will also consult with both cio council and the information management committee.
many companies see artificial intelligence as the key to their future success.
the project also offers ways to provide transparency and accountability for a system to help guide and improve it, such as incorporating an event data recorder in a self-driving car or accessing data from a device’s sensors.
i will in some cases distinguish between contributions to the first three venues and those to the fourth, for two rea- sons: the summit contributions were mostly slidesets that presented little method detail (such that counts of some methodological questions not being covered may be misleading); and the summit was structured into four thematic tracks (such that counts of topics in this conference follow from this structure, which is not the case in the other conferences).
human rights are “universal, indivisible and interdependent and interrelated.”
they provide all of us with a sense of purpose and hope; moral validation that we are needed and part of something bigger than ourselves; comfort that we are not alone and a community is looking out for us; mentorship, guidance and personal development; a safety net; values, cultural norms and accountability; social gatherings, rituals and a way to meet new people; and a way to pass time.
transparency in the implementation process may also reveal biases that were inadvertently built into systems, such as racism and sexism in search engine algorithms (e.g., noble, 2013).
the development of ai should promote informed participation in public life, cooperation and democratic debate.
we want individuals to be empowered to give, deny or revoke their consent to share data based on a clear understanding of why, how and for how long their data will be used.
have specialized training, and possibly in the future, some level of certification in the safe and ethical use of mr for therapy.
 integrated resource management system (irms) (environment & parks; energy; agriculture & forestry; indigenous affairs, service alberta; alberta energy regulator) - providing the platform for internal data discovery and sharing within partners.
a key element of good data stewardship is to balance the tension between privacy and the needs of data analytics.
the benefit to them will be to make the claim that their robot meets ieee p7001 level 4 for users, level 5 for certification engineers, etc.
that’s why marinescu was so keen to see the results of ontario’s three-year basic income pilot project, launched in 2017 by the previous liberal government.
for example, the introduction of software capable of analysing large volumes of legal documents might have been expected to reduce the number of legal clerks and paralegals, who act as human search engines during the “discovery” phase of a case; in fact automation has reduced the cost of discovery and increased demand for it.
in his article, “african ethics and journalism ethics: news and opinion in light of ubuntu,” thaddeus metz frames the following question: “what does a sub-saharan ethic focused on the good of community, interpreted philosophically as a moral theory, entail for the duties of various agents with respect to the news/opinion media”?
legal certainty must be created so that workers and businesses understand their rights and obligations.
in addition, companies should have internal systems that allow employees to identify and escalate issues related to discrimination in data and a/is.
• positivesocialimpact: empowering people, organizations and planet with information and knowledge to make a positive impact to sustainable development.
just as automaker henry ford paid good wages to his factory workers at the turn of the last century, so they could afford to buy his cars, businesses today need people to have enough money to buy their goods and services, marinescu said in an interview.
does google have the responsibility to disclose when its ai is posing as a human?
field has evolved, scholars have increasingly focused on ways in which diversity may enhance work processes and organizational mechanisms that promote the potential value in diversity (gonzalez & denisi, 2009; homan, hollenbeck, humphrey, van knippenberg, ilgen, & van kleef, 2008).
with trust, comes responsibility and ai needs to be held accountable for its actions and decisions, just like humans.
individuals require mechanisms to help curate their unique identity and personal data in conjunction with policies and practices that make them explicitly aware of consequences resulting from the bundling or resale of their personal information and life experiences.
accountability in algorithms therefore involves regulation of their data inputs, to ensure that algorithms make decisions that are representative of the entire city.
the montreal declaration is addressed to any person, organization and company that wishes to take part in the responsible development of artiﬁcial intelligence, whether it’s to contribute scientiﬁcally or technologically, to develop social projects, to elaborate rules (regulations, codes) that apply to it, to be able to contest bad or unwise approaches, or to be able to alert public opinion when necessary.
hundreds of millions of people could benefit, from autistic children to earthquake survivors.
as more and more of our lives are captured in digital form, the question of how to preserve our privacy and secure
to enable efficient and effective public and private sector investment, there should be benchmarks
that would provide the best defence in the event that the pessimists are right and the impact of artificial intelligence proves to be more rapid and more dramatic than the optimists expect.some quotes of note: politicians damning new technologies/cultural artifacts
although the acm’s ethics code
source: u.s. bureau of labor statistics, job openings and labor turnover survey, october 2017.
for one thing, these agents will likely be needed to act on the individual’s behalf, helping to manage and protect that person’s private profile data.
various international policies, programs, centres, and activities have been launched to address the development of robust and global ai accountability.
potential biases of big data derived from social network
self-driving vehicles will give people more time to consume goods and services, increasing demand elsewhere in the economy; and autonomous vehicles might greatly expand demand for products (such as food) delivered locally.
computational sustainability directly relates to the use of these technologies to increase social good in ways that could be uniquely tied to existing well-being metrics.
for business actors, this means considering their obligation to respect international human rights, as laid out in the
1) ais must be designed and trained so as not to create, reinforce, or reproduce discrimination based on — among other things — social, sexual, ethnic, cultural, or religious differences.
as an example, today popular robots like pepper are equipped to share data regarding their usage and interaction with humans to the cloud.
realistic agi systems are likely to fall somewhere in between, and will be built by a combination of human design and search/optimization
but at that point, will ai be able to explain, in a way that humans can understand, why its actions are optimal?
finally, it suggests a new paradigm of ‘loyal ai’ in which each individual can use their own personal ai tools to manage their profile data and help maintain person power in a technology dominated world.
it is also addressed to political representatives, whether elected or named, whose citizens expect them to take stock of developing social changes, quickly establish a framework allowing a digital transition that serves the greater good, and anticipate the serious risks presented by ai development.
the stewart–sprinthall management survey and the defining issues test-2 as measures of moral reasoning in public administration.” journal of public administration research and theory 14 (2004): 335–348.
it is with this goal in mind that the proposed principles must be interpreted in coherent fashion, taking into account the distinctiveness of the social, cultural, political and legal contexts for their application.
conducted by measuring employees’ perceptions of issues and practices that are important to understanding and managing diversity, the results of the study suggested four dimensions of diversity climate—personal value for
finally — and this is vital — industry and academia should continue the promising work underway to develop analytical techniques to detect and address potential unfairness, like methods that systematically assess the data used to train ai systems for appropriate representativeness and document information about its origins and characteristics.
as safiya umoja noble stated, “algorithms and ai applications are prone to copy human shortcomings, and replicate biased decisions that reinforce ongoing inequalities29.” for example, pulitzer prize winner propublica found that compas, an instrument used to guide sentencing, was more likely to incorrectly flag black defendants as being at high risk of recidivism than white defendants, but less likely to erroneously label blacks than whites as being at low risk of recidivism30.
what makes ai models special is that they are designed for this.
they conclude that “exposing an inequity or proposing a solution to a social problem doesn’t necessarily mean that social good will follow.
if proven successful, this could be a powerful tool in unlocking private data for social causes.
they show how a variety of organizations and academic institutions are taking the first steps to use ai solutions for social good.
“all data driven organizations / businesses that at some point touch upon uniquely identifying an individual or identifiable group of individuals” is the straightforward answer to the first part of your question.
how can ai contribute to personal well-being?
despite this hesitation, the researcher was able to convince the agencies that the data would be in good hands.
getting good at noticing and identifying ethical issues, like birdwatching, is a skill that takes repeated practice to develop.
flexible regulatory and governance frameworks which deliver legal certainty and predictability for stakeholder could be the ultimate goals for law and regulation.
an mr/a/is environment that accommodated neurodiversity could be a tool of immense potential good.
companies and universities with ai talent could also allocate some of their research capacity to new ai capabilities or solutions that focus on societal benefit but are unable to attract people with the requisite skills.
“crime against triviality” could be introduced in order to impeached the managing 1% to claim they are in it for the money, for the control, for the power.
and while everyone worries about ai, says mr mokyr, far more labour is being replaced by cheap workers overseas.
these big picture narratives focus on the pre-frontal cortex as the crowning achievement of evolution, man distinguished from everything else by his ability to reason, to plan, to overcome the rugged tug of instinct and delay gratification until the future, to make guesses about the probability that something might come to pass in the future and to act in alignment with those guesses to optimize rewards, often rewards focused on self gain and sometimes on good across a community (with variations).
as a journalist is beheaded and dismembered at the direction of saudi arabian leaders (allegedly, but the killers did bring a bone saw), silicon valley is swimming in oceans of money from the kingdom’s public investment fund.
however, other priority relations in the norm network must be established through empirical research so as to reflect the shared values of the community in question.
this practice needs to be updated, so that it is clear to the employee what data is collected, and for what purpose.
a significant impact on the actions of an individual aws must be avoided.
when insights derived from data could impact the human condition, the potential harm to individuals and communities should be the paramount consideration.
is also the possibility that these systems could negatively impact human-to-human intimate relations.
"ai & society
the eu (public and private sectors) should increase investments in ai research and innovation by at least €20 billion between now and the end of 2020. to support these efforts, the commission is increasing its investment to €1.5 billion for the period 2018–2020 under thehorizon 2020research and innovation programme.
the most difficult yet important question about the world into which we are headed is this: what will become of human consciousness if its own explanatory power is surpassed by ai, and societies are no longer able to interpret the world they inhabit in terms that are meaningful to them?
leveraging it with ai technologies will result in significant efficiency gains.
8) the integrity of one’s personal identity must be guaranteed.
a strong news industry is also critical to building an informed community.
mixed reality creates opportunities for generated experiences and high levels of user control that may lead certain individuals to choose virtual life over the physical world.
), human-system interface (command and control), and enabling better situational awareness (sensing and understanding).
“embedding ethical principles in collective decision support systems,” in: proceedings of the thirtieth aaai conference on artificial intelligence, 4147–4151.
21 rob matheson, “artificial intelligence model ‘learns’ from patient data to make cancer treatment less toxic,” mit news, august 9, 2018, news.mit.edu/2018/artificial-intelligence-model-learns-patient-data-cancer- treatment-less-toxic-0810.
the best ai talent in the world is also increasingly coming to canada to launch ai businesses such as integrate.ai and others.
use cases within each domain are further grouped into two to  ve issue types.6 the following is the list of the social impact domains we examined.
but this project — developed by scientists and engineers at microsoft research, the university of pittsburgh, the university of california riverside and vanderbilt university — is exploring ways to detect pathogens in the environment so public health of cials can protect people from transmission before an outbreak begins.6
you can use this picture to understand what every ai does:
“ai for the common good” is understood here (and in the surveyed literature) in an engineering sense.
if it had to decide something more complicated that depended on thousands or millions of inputs — like how to control a car (that depends on all of your vision, hearing, and more), or which web page might give the best answer to your question about wombat farming (that depends on whether you’re casually interested or a professional marsupial wrangler, and on interpreting if the site was written by an enthusiast or is just trying to sell you cheap generic wombat viagra) — you would find not one simple comparison, but millions, even tens of millions, needed to decide.
such boards should seek an appropriately diverse composition and use relevant criteria, including both research ethics and product ethics at the appropriate levels of advancement of research and development.
focused on solving critical business problems with advanced technology, accenture labs brings fresh insights and innovations to our clients, helping them capitalize on dramatic changes in technology, business and society.
a communal conception takes the common good in- terests to be interests that citizens have as citizens, whereas a distributive conception is based on the ac- knowledgement that citizens belong to various groups with distinct interests, that these interests compete for the facilities and resources and may pose different demands, and decisions and allocations need to be made according to some distributive principle [7].
a large amount of useful data resides in public datasets — data that belongs to the public itself.
if imparting knowledge is not necessarily beneficial, a parsimony principle can be useful: focus on the task at hand and get and use the knowledge needed for it, but not more.
from data against important privacy interests.
most importantly, we all need to work together to ensure that ai is developed in a responsible manner so that people will trust it and deploy it broadly, both to increase business and personal productivity and to help solve societal problems.
that complex social problems require a multi-disciplinary and multi-sector approach is something we have known for a long time (e.g.
regulation or even a full ban on the development of this technology, while others argue that social value could be found by developing intimate robots, including on religious grounds.
our “micro-to-macro” methodology examines microeconomic industry trends to better understand the broad macroeconomic forces affecting business strategy and public policy.
2 ai capabilities can be used for bad or malicious purposes as well as for social good.
the gold standard for privacy professionals—could cause various harms to entire classes of people.
in my view, however, there is no reason to think that the technologies of the future will not provide even more opportunities for people to live smarter and more creatively.
maybe there is a need to leave the classical approaches behind and to develop a new model that suits both human beings and machines.
as new york university’s nouriel roubini reminds us, “late nineteenth- and early twentieth-century leaders” sought to “minimize the worst features of industrialization.” accordingly, child labor was abolished, working hours were gradually reduced, and “a social safety net was put in place to protect vulnerable workers and stabilize the (often fragile) macroeconomy.”
knowledge sharing and data exploration are core to the culture of the organization.
when someone is talking about using ai in a project, they mean breaking the project down into the components drawn above, and then building the right model.
to define and measure the benefit we wish
and it goes even further: the labor of manuscript writing was something for monks to do — for there was no greater danger for the devout soul than idleness.
without this knowledge, dssg teams are in danger of misinterpreting the data and proposing inappropriate or ineffective solutions.
constant connection may deprive us of one of life’s most important assets: the time to pause, reflect, and engage in meaningful conversation.
be more comprehensively evaluated, providing opportunities to test for unintended negative consequences that could diminish human well- being.
building a global community that works for everyone starts with the millions of smaller communities and intimate social structures we turn to for our personal, emotional and spiritual needs.
to human rights: a/is should always be subordinate to human judgment and control.
“14) shared benefit: ai technologies should benefit and empower as many people as possible.”
the rush to consider the gdpr as a global data framework indicates that there is a first-mover advantage in developing new digital policy.
one can make the case that these widespread worries about and mistrust of ai reflect a deep desire to see some sort of governance model or regulatory framework applied to ai.
reinforcement learning measures should be built not just based on what ai or robots do to achieve an outcome, but also on how ai and robots align with human values to accomplish that particular result.
such a huge number of features is good for the ai in that it doesn’t impose any preconceptions of what is and isn’t important, but makes it harder to build the ai itself; it’s only in the past decade or so that it’s become possible to build computers big enough to handle that.
engineers should explicitly examine their systems and inform their customers of their qualitative and quantitative confidence in the predictability of the actions of the autonomous functions of weapons systems in response to representative scenarios, specific contexts of use, and
that bring together all stakeholders from both the private and public sector;
and we've built infrastructure to work with public safety organizations around the world when we become aware of these issues.
responsible innovation (ri) enables policy- makers, scientists, technology developers, and the public to better understand and respond
the system of employer-provided bene ts and social safety nets has not.
104 (2016): 671; kate crawford and jason schultz, “big data and due process: toward a framework to redress predictive privacy harms,” bcl rev.
aia disclosures would also help governments proactively avoid political turmoil and backlash involving systems that the public may ultimately  nd untrustworthy or that may cause direct or indirect harm.
seizing the opportunity while managing possible workforce transition, building ethical policies for technology application, and in general avoiding polarization of resources is a big challenge for governments to address.
of increasingly autonomous technologies: considering how meaningful human control might move the discussion forward.” 2014.
the social domains covered by our use cases range across all 17 united nations sustainable development goals
based on three years of fieldwork with multi-sector collaborations in the space of data science for social good, we argue that there are five distinct contributions that motivate collaborations with academia: expertise, labor, ethics, experimentation, and neutrality.
14% of canadians already use ai-powered tools and devices for their personal use
specifically, because the diversity professionals in study 1 were primarily from publicly traded organizations, the ability to say whether similar patterns of attributes would be highlighted in smaller and/or public organizations is limited.
their analyses suggest that ai will indeed reshape employment across advanced and developing economies alike, but also that the future of work will be but one small part of a much larger story.
bottlenecks limiting the use of ai for societal good can be grouped into four categories.
this is done through the eventual negation of independent human thinking and decision-making, where algorithms begin to inform through targeted feedback loops what it
rently, the reliance on knowledge is often expressed as a reliance on (big) data instead.
another area where ai has the potential to have a signi cant positive impact is in serving the more than 1 billion people in the world with disabilties.
worryingly, they also reported a lack of confidence in the abilities of business and government to address imminent challenges, such as data privacy, cybersecurity, and ethical risks.
as a key risk.22 as machines become capable of performing tasks that require complex analysis and discretionary judgment, the concern is it will accelerate the rate of job loss beyond what already occurs due to automation.
to give a very simple example: people often say “well, an obvious rule is that if you say n****r, that’s bad.” i challenge you to apply that rule to the different meanings of the word in (1) nearly any of jay-z’s songs, (2) langston hughes’ poem “christ in alabama,” (3) that routine by chris rock, (4) that same routine if he had performed it in front of a white audience, (5) and that same routine if ted nugent had performed it, verbatim, to one of his audiences, and come up with a coherent explanation of what’s going on.
ai requires a new technical and civic infrastructure, a new way to conduct business, a new way to be together in community.
ai tools have the potential to unlock new realms of scientific research and knowledge in critical domains like biology, chemistry, medicine, and environmental sciences.
answers to these questions are not easy to capture, but their impact on well-being within society is profound.
the governance framework will facilitate the organizational alignment and support, and measure performance as data capabilities are deployed.
in addition to the above objectives, we will not design or deploy ai in the following application areas:
box 1. building a library of use cases for social good to understand the comparative relevance of ai across domains
to ensure that a/is best serves the public interest, we believe that effective a/is policies should embody a rights-based approach1 that achieves five principal objectives:
because raising ethical concerns can be perceived as slowing or halting a design project, organizations need to consider how they can recognize and incentivize value-based design as an integral component of product development.
• cartiere c., and m. zebracki, eds., the everyday practice of public art: art, space, and social inclusion.
“data analytics is the science of drawing value from data”
corporate and academic ai teams have already—inadvertently—released data and systems biased against people poorly represented among the high priests of ai.
cyber-physical systems (cps) are defined as technical systems of networked computers, robots and artificial intelligence that interact with the physical world.
to help advance discussions around these and other issues, cifar will build inclusive, international collaborations and engagements that bring together research perspectives from any discipline, including those in the social sciences, humanities, law, engineering, and the arts with policymakers and innovators.
while some of these challenges are nontechnical and common to most social good endeavors, others are tech-related: ngos may lack the data scientists and translators needed to address the problem and interpret results and output from ai models accurately.
that judeo-christian thought has a particular way of personifying the artifacts and precipitates of abstract thoughts into moral systems.
since these goals are quite distinct from (or at least much more spe- cific than) the common good, these specific notions of the good will not be investigated further here.
privacy is about appropriate data flows that conform to social norms and expectations.
 through an analysis of about 160 ai social impact use cases, we have identified and characterized ten domains where adding ai to the solution mix could have large-scale social impact.
see kyarash shahriari and mana shahriari, ieee standard review—ethically aligned design: a vision for prioritizing human well-being with arti cial intelligence and autonomous systems, ieee canada international humanitarian technology conference, toronto, canada, july 21–22, 2017.
this can be done by doing exchange governmental delegation trips, transcontinental knowledge exchanges, and by building a/is components into existing venues and efforts surrounding good regulation (general data protection regulation (gdpr)).
in the worst case, ai solutions can unintentionally harm the very people they are supposed to help.
1) only human beings can be held responsible for decisions stemming from recommendations made by ais, and the actions that proceed therefrom.
this section identifies well-being metrics being used today by social scientists, international institutions, and governments to provide an overall introduction to well-being.
satellite data could also be used to measure economic activity by detecting car density, construction rates, and electricity consumption through nighttime illumination.
recommendation 2: use smart-contract technology to manage interactions involving personal profile data.
“where are human subjects in big data research?
many students raised concerns that canada lacks public knowledge about artificial intelligence.
in today’s digital economy, the mobility of labor and the ability to quickly focus skills on new growth areas are vitally important to business success.
biases can and will exist across ai interactions: in the development of algorithms, services, form factors and machine “personalities,” as well as in the context of user experience.
other implementation challenges may depend on the willingness of financial institutions to provide a mobile money infrastructure and support the use of alternate credit ratings, and on providing financial education and transparency to customers.
the question of legal personhood for a/is also interacts with broader ethical questions on the extent to which a/is should be treated as moral agents independent from their human designers and operators, and whether recognition of a/is personhood would enhance or detract from the purposes for which humans created the a/is in the first place.
one step we can take is to create clear regulatory structures and legal frameworks over the data we knowingly use and share.
1. organizational support: scope the role and charter of the ethics function
give due consideration to the possibility that less data may result in both better analysis and less risk.
for example, if you routinely use complicated data and backend workflow is complex, consider how automation can tighten the ship, improve efficiency, and enhance workflow.
for example, news stories shared on social media platforms are frequently trusted at a level higher than they should be, because some news stories are inaccurate and therefore are not trustworthy.
this example illustrates that even “privacy” takes on a di erent meaning in this context, that legal and technological ques ons relevant in the  rst example do not appear applicable, and that instead the example points to many further ques ons that researchers should ask.
notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 5
consider this principle as an example:
brandon ballinger et al., deepheart: semi-supervised sequence learning for cardiovascular risk prediction, 32nd aaai conference on arti cial intelligence, new orleans, la, february 2–7, 2018, aaai.org/ocs/index.
we must keep our focus on how these technologies will affect individual human beings and human rights.
two challenges to face when exploring this potential are: (1) identifying which indicators to select to model potential unintended consequences; and, (2) understanding how to predict unintended consequences when data are lacking or are incomplete.
as a result, decision makers are well informed of the risks and impacts and can confidently stand behind their decisions and know that their decisions are equipped to enable the success of alberta and albertans.
it also revealed a lack of general knowledge about the systems among the agencies, leading to situations where the students had to explain what ‘criminal justice algorithms’ were to the public servants in charge of providing the records on their use.
or eliminate the values of respect, humanity, fairness, and dignity.
the montreal declaration for responsible ai development has three main objectives:
5) when damage or harm has been inﬂicted by an ais, and the ais is proven to be reliable and to have been used as intended, it is not reasonable to place blame on the people involved in its development or use.
the commission will support business-education partnerships to attract and keep more ai talent in europe, set up dedicated training schemes with financial support from theeuropean social fund, and support digital skills, competencies in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (stem), entrepreneurship and creativity.
some of my favorite people working on artistic applications of ai consider tuning hyperparameters to be an act akin to pruning plants in a garden.
such situations are unlikely to arise very often given the vast amount of data being generated by digital technologies, the fact that multiple  rms often have the same data, and the reality that people often use multiple services that generate data for a variety of  rms.
fol- lowing veruggio [24], i refer to this as roboethics: “roboethics is not the ethics of robots nor any arti- ficial ethics, but it is the human ethics of the robots’ designers, manufacturers, and users.” asilomar prin- ciple 10) constrains these design, manufacturing and use activities by positing “value alignment: highly autonomous ai systems should be designed so that their goals and behaviors can be assured to align with human values throughout their operation.”
codes such as the acm code of conduct [3]17, the aoir recommendations for eth- ical decision-making and internet research [29]18, and the ieee ethically aligned design guidelines [5]19 explicitly call for this.
legal repercussions could also result in case of misdiagnosis, though the question of who would be liable remains unresolved, as discussed above.
these materials can be selected and customized for ethics training at multiple levels (individual, team, department, division, corporate), but at each level they must be integrated with care as part of a genuine effort to build in  sustainable  ethical practices.
artificial intelligence, while not a silver bullet,
6) the development of ais must avoid creating dependencies through attention-capturing techniques or the imitationof human characteristics (appearance, voice, etc.)
68 executive o ce of the president, big data: a report on algorithmic systems, opportunity, and civil rights, may 2016, https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/default/ les/microsites/ostp/2016_0504_data_discrimination.
thus, how can the academic rigor of traditional ethics speak to the question of maintaining human autonomy in light of algorithmic decision-making?
contributing to the common good is an ambitious and noble aim, and i am convinced that it inspires many researchers and practitioners to act in responsi- ble ways.
here’s how the wef article states the overarching need relevant for business today along these lines:
in its first year of operation, the ai and research group at microsoft grew by 60 percent through hiring and acquisitions.
we grouped use cases into ten social impact domains based on examining and integrating taxonomies used by social-sector organizations, such as the ai for good foundation and the world bank.
the assimilation cell, with high belongingness and low value in uniqueness, reflects situ- ations in which an individual who is unique is treated as an insider when he or she conforms to the dominant norms of the culture.
by looking to new developments in social psychology research on optimal distinctive- ness, social identity complexity, intersectionality, and self-verification theory, for instance, there are valuable ideas that can be built upon to advance the diversity literature on individuals
the open government program in collaboration with goa stakeholders have defined the following capital imt asset projects that are components of the technical infrastructure required:
• bayern, s. et al., “company law and autonomous systems: a blueprint for lawyers, entrepreneurs, and regulators.” hastings science and technology law journal 9, no.
that not every scenario can be accounted for in a code of ethics.
epic addresses this reality and represents a breakthrough in how businesses can measure and report the true value they create for all stakeholders.
[2] yesterday i had the pleasure of hearing a talk by the always-inspiring martin snelgrove about how to design hardware to reduce energy when using trained algorithms to execute predictions in production machine learning.
to provide education and training for people of every age and at every stage of school and their working lives to help them take advantage of the opportunities of the ai era.
to do this, we need ways to share new ideas and share enough common understanding to actually work together.
in the way ai entities should all record their internal decision making process to immutable public blockchains, so humans could revise any decision made at any time should any accident occur or any improvement be required.
such a system may be unfair in application, however, if loan of cers incorrectly interpret “70 percent risk of default” to simply mean “bad credit risk” and decline to extend credit to everyone with that score — even though nearly a third of those applicants are predicted to be a good credit risk.
“working to have good representation of women and minorities is positive, but we also want them to be able to advance,” rostamzadeh says.
the result of which may include inefficiencies and inconsistent versions of the truth owing to no data management practices.
“the ai ethics advisory panel allows us to ensure an ethical ai, which serves humanity and benefits society.”
[60] m. kosinski, d. stillwell, t. graepel, private traits and attributes are predictable from digi- tal records of human behavior.
for the equality and inclusion and the security and justice domains, however, we find a high percentage of multimodal use cases (73 percent and 63 percent, respectively), due to an emphasis on natural environment and human behavior understanding in these domains.
like an environmental impact study or the gdpr privacy impact assessments, a/is impact assessments would provide organizations with tools to certify their products and services are safe and consistent for the general public.
algorithms used in government affect everybody and are a concern for politicians, business, civil society and citizens.
the conceptual complexities surrounding what “values” are (e.g., hitlin and piliavin, 2004; malle and dickert, 2007; rohan, 2000; sommer, 2016) make it currently difficult to envision a/is that have computational structures directly corresponding to social or cultural values (such as “security,” “autonomy,” or “fairness”).
19) capability caution: there being no consensus, we should avoid strong assumptions regarding upper limits on future ai capabilities.
in this instance, the university is leveraging its position as a relatively impartial party to mediate the relationships between public and private sector entities.
an affective system that nudges human beings should have the ability to accurately distinguish between users, including detecting characteristics such as whether the user is an adult or a child.
being for individuals or society.
an intel spokesman said the company welcomes feedback on how it can better create environments where everyone feels included.
by understand- ing their current approach to diversity management, managers may be better able to identify strategies for creating more diverse and/or inclusive organi- zations, such as actions to demonstrate leadership’s commitment to diversity or the institutionalization of participatory work systems.
 consider where existing policy, such as privacy, security, trade secrets, and copyright, may create barriers to accountability.
simply put, people will not share data about themselves — data that is essential for ai to help inform decisions about people — unless they are con dent that their privacy is protected and their data secured.
the same constraints and engineering trade-offs as the human brain (a product of natural selection).
the following sections are included in the appendix as separate documents to provide readers with an introduction to existing individual and societal level well-being metrics currently in use:
giving everyone a voice has historically been a very positive force for public discourse because it increases the diversity of ideas shared.
in july of 2015, when i was technical leader for google’s social efforts (including photos), i received an urgent message from a colleague at google: our photo indexing system had publicly described a picture of a black man and his friend as “gorillas,” and he was — with good reason —  furious.
individual ai could also record all interactions so the individual would also have its interactions from the use of corporate and government computer networks recorded.
in detail, the mydata declaration states: “we want privacy, data security and data minimization to become standard practice in the design of applications.
“moving from trust to trustw orthiness: experiences of public engagement in the scottish health informatics programme.” science and public policy 43(5): 713-723; also, see kaminski, m. et al.
for example, the crisis response and public and social sector management domains require mostly mature capabilities, while solutions for equality and inclusion are still developing.
the last principle is no less important
true to its name, the gdpr a regulatory initiative that sets out general data protection rules aimed at protecting individuals’ privacy within the eu.
also the concept of cross-national large scale domain-focused test fields for ai research activities simulating complex interactions in real-word settings by establishing means for data sharing and collaborative ai model building are seen as promising endeavors for developing future ai applications in complex environments, such as autonomous driving, energy supply or healthcare.
first, we acknowledge the advances of ai-based technologies as well as the anisotropy of progress along the various sectors of human activities.
society has not established universal standards or guidelines for embedding human norms and values into autonomous and intelligent systems (a/is) today.
in 2013, pricewaterhousecoopers released a report called total impact approach: what ceos think from pricewaterhousecoopers: (where total impact refers to a “holistic view of social, environmental, fiscal and economic dimensions”) where they noted:
pii, or personal data, is defined as any data that can be reasonably linked to an individual based on their unique physical, digital, or virtual identity.
consider several standard problem- solution pairs, with solution approaches from law, law enforcement, and public health, in different countries.
research and potentially consider the reconstruction of our social contract as alternative mixed societies, including the concept of present virtual and physical beings that will potentially emerge from alternative realities.
the risk here is that information about individuals, such as financial, tax, or health records, could be made accessible through porous ai systems to those without a legitimate need to access them, causing embarrassment and potentially harm.
academic, legal and civil society experts should be able to meaningfully participate in these discussions, critique and advise on the use of these technologies.
as this happens, it seems inevitable that “ai law” will emerge as an important new legal topic.
with the changing political composition of many regulatory agencies, there is the potential for new case law that swings the pendulum in the opposite direction.
4. social media sourced data
this does not mean the agency must go through the e ort of rede ning “automated decision system” for each particular system: once they reach a working de nition, they can choose to republish
quarterly news mentions of ai or artificial intelligence and ethics 2014-2018
and we’re not yet walking into conferences and meeting people who introduce themselves as “ai lawyers.” by 2038, it’s safe to assume that the situation will be different.
in a nutshell, the german government aims to establish “ai made in germany” as a global standard.
for instance, residents of a historically black neighborhood shaped by jim crow segregation in corpus christi, texas, reached a multi-million dollar settlement against the federal highway administration because the environmental impact assessment failed to anticipate that the highway construction plans further segregated this neighborhood.57 avoiding these sorts of harms is a key goal of the aia notice and comment process.
2. how ai capabilities can be used for societal benefit page 10
and transfer personal data.
in its second version, this guiding document describes the ongoing work of various standards working groups that have since been established to address a number of sub-domains, including:
this personal data ai agent would include root-level settings that would automatically provide data to authorities after they have satisfied sufficiently specific warrants, subpoenas, or other court-issued orders, unless authority has been vested in other agencies by local or national law.
electronic data processing, or edp, rose to prominence in 1950s american business as a way to automate simple and regular tasks that involved large amounts of data.
linkedin launched reach, a six-month apprenticeship program where people join a linkedin engineering team to learn what it is like to work as a software engineer and gain experience to help them pursue a career in software development.
the development and dissemination of ai technologies by groups who do not share canadian values may risk the development of a landscape in which data privacy and biases are viewed as ancillary rather than barriers to fair development.
• user/military commanders: only operate weapons systems with meaningful human control and in accordance with delegated authority.
(remember that this was in mid-2016) but the underlying data was very clear: when people said “three black teenagers” in media with high-quality images, they were almost always talking about them as criminals, and when they talked about “three white teenagers,” they were almost always advertising stock photography.
graduates have an 84 per cent employment rate within 90 days of completing the program and earn two to six times more income than before.
justiﬁcation consists in making transparent the most important factors and parameters shaping the decision, and should take the same form as the justiﬁcation we would demand of a human making the same kind of decision.
in the absence of robust processes, principles, and frameworks, transparency alone not sufficient to ensure greater accountability.
the impact ai will have on society starts with the mindset we adopt to imagine its potential and the tasks we choose to apply it to.
first, we summarize global moral preferences.
during the handshake/negotiation between the personal agent and the system or service, the personal agent would decide what data to make available and under what terms, and the system would decide whether to make the service available, and at what level.
thorn works in collaboration with a group of technology companies, including google, microsoft, and facebook, and has found a total of 5,791 child victims since 2016.4 ai is also being used in the battle against cancer: researchers at the mit media lab, for example, have applied reinforcement learning, a capability in which systems essentially learn by trial and error, in clinical trials with patients diagnosed with glioblastoma (the most aggressive form of brain cancer) to successfully reduce toxic chemotherapy and radiotherapy dosing.
perhaps there is room in existing canadian regulations — federal privacy law and competition law — to govern ai.
the last federal budget talked about making canada “a world-leading destination for companies seeking to invest in ai and innovation.” but what exactly are the social costs and benefits associated with the rapidly changing developments in ai?
pak-hang wong’s paper, “responsible innovation for decent nonliberal peoples: a dilemma?” demonstrates the problematic consequences of ri solely grounded on, or justified by, liberal democratic values and should be consulted as a guide to normative foundations in ri.
many quantified-self apps and related applications, includ- ing those around substance abuse or addiction prob- lems23, try not only or not at all to impart knowledge, but rather to help build and maintain social-support
for those interested in singularity university, and the impact of technology in society (and business), i strongly advise to apply to their [global solutions program 2017][89].
software developers would produce contract management platforms appropriate for consumer negotiation.
 q3: given that trust can be misplaced—individuals can over- and under-trust ai—how can accountability regimes promote the development of trustworthy ai that is appropriately trusted?
there are many of us who stand for bringing people together and connecting the world.
this paper provides an analysis of more than 400 use cases across 19 industries and nine business functions and highlights the broad use and signi cant economic potential of advanced ai techniques.
data management has been the purview of individual departments.
from this, general guidelines for the creation, distribution, practice methods, and training requirements should be established for the clinical application of mr for persons with mental health conditions.
it is quite possible we have reached a point where ai is affecting humans psychologically more than we realize.
these capabilities position ai to deliver great benefits to society.
work conditions and work-life balance increased leading to, for example, the concept of free time (and hence tourism).
there is a growing demand for consistent, credible data to make well informed decisions and better support program delivery within the government of alberta (goa).
the social sector has an especially dif cult challenge in hiring and retaining both types of talent, given the high salaries that experienced practitioners can earn at commercial companies.
for example, cornell university’s irb determined that the infamous emotional contagion experiment conducted on facebook users didn’t require their review because the cornell researchers who worked on it weren’t involved in the data collection (sullivan, 2014); clearly, the backlash from that study suggests that many people felt the university had abdicated its responsibility as an ethical conscience (chambers, 2014).
the possibilities of billions of people connected by mobile devices, with unprecedented processing power, storage capacity, and access to knowledge, are unlimited.
in an expansion of the original model to include turnover intentions, mor barak, levin, nissly, and lane (2006) found that exclusion from decision making was a predictor of intention to leave among child welfare workers.
this results in the pro- posal of ethics pen-testing as a method for helping ai
as business leaders, we see basic income as good economics and enlightened self-interest: it is a pro-growth, pro-business, pro-free-market economic stimulus that will grow the economy and create jobs.
• objective well-being indicators have been used to understand conditions enabling well-being of countries and to measure the impact of companies.
new connections between disciplines won’t displace the traditional strengths of history, philosophy, art, and literature, but the emerging assumption that humanists and scientists are working on a shared educational project still represents a massive change.
der digitalen grundrechte der europäischen union (charter of the digital fundamental rights of the european union), telecommunications research laboratory, “ai network kentōkai
we’re deploying ai systems with the goal of making them available to everyone and aspiring to build ai systems that re ect timeless societal values so that ai earns the trust of all.4
control over data (and their use) will also help determine outcomes.
to ensure that people are prepared for the impact that ai
if the solution incorrectly indicates that a road is clear of  ooding and directs thousands of people toward it, there could be signi cant consequences, such as increased risk of harm and reduced evacuation speed.
a/is should prioritize human well-being as an outcome in all system designs, using the best available, and widely accepted, well-being metrics as their reference point.
on people’s well-being, demonstrates the desire for business leaders to incorporate metrics of success beyond fiscal indicators for their efforts.
to persons precludes the creation of aws that target human beings.
to solve access and impact challenges, governments, the private sector, multilateral institutions, and civil society will need to put digital policies at the center of international development and economic growth.
challenges for a universal code of data ethics
in the recent nhs-google deepmind data sharing deal the royal free hospital trust shared up to 1.6 million patients’ data with google deepmind, the uk-based artificial intelligence company.
to avoid having to generate a large amount of training data at the outset, the program could potentially be scaled to  rst target parks like those in the pilot programs, in order to minimize the labor required for additional training.
accenture is a leading global professional services company, providing a broad range of services and solutions in strategy, consulting, digital, technology and operations.
identify the internal and external stakeholders who should contribute to or review your emerging code of ethics.
the chinese produce and share -- often enthusiastically, sometimes involuntarily -- more data than any other culture.
artificial intelligence (ai) is currently experiencing another “summer” in terms of perceived promises and economic growth.
while solving data challenges will require goodwill and careful coordination, the talent- related challenges we have identified with respect to applying ai for societal good are potentially long-term issues that start with changes in education systems.
there is need to consider current and future potential human rights infringements, and how best to address them with better thinking about harm to rights, and regulatory and legal regimes.
some support for the possibility that inclusion minimizes status differences is offered by nembhard and edmonson’s (2006) findings that leader inclusive- ness was positively associated with psychological safety in health care teams of profession- als with varied status, which in turn was positively related to group member engagement.
this de- cision contributed to a more multidisciplinary per- spective on fairness, accountability and transparency than in the years before, with contributions drawing on a more diverse set of stakeholders and problem for- mulations.
it is also critical that potential harms are identified and addressed and that mechanisms are put in place to hold accountable those responsible for harms.
while i describe the field as “bs” in my original twitter storm (largely for brevity, as twitter is the death of nuance), about half a dozen people have objected to that blanket dismissal.
kaigi hōkokusho 2016: ai network no eikyōto risk — chiren shakai (wins) no jitsugen ni muketa kadai” (aiネットワーク化検討会議 報 告書2016 ō公表-「aiネットワーク化の影響とリ スク -智連社会(wins(ウインズ))の実現に向 けた課題-」) [the conference on networking among ais report (2016): impacts and risks
evidence of states seeking greater adoption of artificial intelligence and quantum computing for security purposes already
plans college for artificial intelligence, backed by $1 billion,” new york times, october 15, 2018; maria di mento, “donors pour $583 million into artificial- intelligence programs and research,” chronicle of philanthropy, october 15, 2018.
presentation at the ai for good global summit 2018, geneva, may 15- 17, 2018, https://www.itu.int/en/itu- t/ai/2018/documents/presentations/dina% 20and%20ezinne.pdf
the research  rm forrester projects that by 2027, ai will displace 24.7 million jobs and create 14.9 million new jobs.28 new jobs will emerge as ai changes how work is done and what people need from the world around them.
and society (large data sets representing aggregate individual subjective and objective data) is widely available via establishing tracking methodologies, this data should be classified to match existing well-being indicators so devices or systems can be provably aligned to the increase of human well-being (satisfaction with life and the conditions of life, positive affect, and eudaimonic well-being).
added udem philosophy professor marc-antoine dilhac: "our consultation process and the resulting declaration will have an outside advisory quality that will help guide public decision-makers.
to seize control and power at the person’s expense.
a business developing an autonomous system would use p7001 to self-assess the transparency of their system against the levels we define in p7001, for each of the different stakeholder groups and – we hope – be encouraged to increase the level of transparency in their product using the higher levels of transparency (which we expect will be demanding for designers to achieve) as targets to aim for.
3. machine learning model predicts probability that the portion of a service line attached to a particular home is hazardous based on known features, such as home value.
however, organizations that do not expand their expertise beyond traditional realms of knowledge to include open data will see their power to negotiate the next regulatory paradigm eroded.
the phrase “artificial intelligence” was just too frightening: it cut too close, perhaps, to the way we define ourselves, and what makes us different as humans.
“legal personhood for artificial intelligences.” north carolina law review 70, no.
many holis c trajectories involve data and inferences on human mobility, and human mobility is well-known as a  eld that raises many legal and ethical issues.
that meant it was lucrative and valuable, and (some) men didn’t want women enjoying all the benefits of that.
once rati ed, publish your code of ethics for public consumption and consider submitting it to the center for the study of ethics in the professions.
if affective artifacts without cultural sensitivity interact with impressionable humans, they could alter the norms, principles, and therefore actions of that person.
we surveyed suppliers by asking them: what are/ were the top three challenges for your company’s ai initiative?
the amount of personal space (proxemics) given is very important for human interaction.
and charitable behavior.” ai and society 32, no.
“i worry a little bit that people will think we’ve done a grand gesture and momentum on other things will slow down,” she says.algorithmic impact assessments:
of a data-driven analysis in front-end sentencing - and to issue policy recommendations based on this careful, independent analysis.” eric holder, “speech at the national association of criminal defense lawyers 57th annual meeting and 13th state criminal justice network conference” (philadelphia, pa, aug. 1, 2014), department of justice, https://www.justice.gov/opa/speech/attorney-general-eric-holder-speaks-national-association-criminal-defense- lawyers-57th.
as with any new technology, we are learning that deploying ai beyond the lab might create risks for individuals and societies, raising concerns about accountability.
over the past few years there has been a growing demand for big data and data analytics within many sectors, including the public sector.
• the patient makes errors in either or both areas and achieves no clinical benefit, or worse, aggravates the existing condition with an ineffective or inappropriate mr approach that actually does more harm than good.
our job at facebook is to help people make the greatest positive impact while mitigating areas where technology and social media can contribute to divisiveness and isolation.
asimov’s laws were not designed to solve the problem of universal machine ethics, and they were not even designed to let machines distribute harm between humans.
ai for good foundation, ai4good.org/active-projects/.
citizen engagement is particularly useful when it comes to solving some of the issues regarding the development of ethical, safe and inclusive ai
an example of this is a diagnostic tool that may overall be better than a human doctor but that makes signi cantly more diagnosis errors when the patient is a member of an ethnic minority.
by doing so, it can help medical professionals spend more of their time on higher value and potentially lifesaving work.
without sufficient regulation, companies could use algorithms (and eventually, ai) to confine debate to stances that they judge acceptable, hindering free sharing of ideas and the development of critical thinking (5).
indeed, across all industries, there is clear evidence that the technologies that underpin the fourth industrial revolution are having a major impact on businesses.
to philosophical ethics (ethics as a scientific discipline) or is the reference to western morality?
soon after, as reported by recode, facebook admitted that “data about who you call and data about which apps you use on portal can be used to target you with ads on other facebook-owned properties.” oh.
such frameworks also encourage proactive examination of harms and risks, seek to engage the data subject (e.g., consumer, user, stakeholders) in the design of the software,
on the one hand, we believe governments should help accelerate ai advances by promoting common approaches to making data broadly available for machine learning.
since the first days of commercial film, the standards for color and image calibration have included things like “shirley cards,” pictures of standardized models.
tyrants and despots might utilize aws to gain or retain control over a population which would not otherwise support them.
for example, a self-driving vehicle’s prioritization of one factor over another in its decision-making will need to reflect the priority order of values of its target user population,
this coordination could not only ensure that an ai is functioning within the legal constraints of multiple jurisdictions, but also that it is functioning safely and in a trustworthy manner.
at the same time, ai algorithms can be used as a tool to detect anomalies in communications or processes to increase cyber security.
“algorithmic impact assessments: a practical framew ork for public agency accountability.” ai now institute.
what happens when we can no longer trust our news sources and social media feeds?
these are examples of a computer reasoning by drawing conclusions about which information is related to other information.
how ieee aims to instill ethics in artificial intelligence design.
on the topic of algorithmic accountability.16 aias also complement similar domain-speci c proposals for algorithmic accountability, like andrew selbst’s recent work on algorithmic impact statements in the context of predictive policing systems.17 by integrating these approaches, aias can begin to shed light on automated decision systems, helping us better understand their use and determine where they are and are not appropriate, both before they are deployed and on a recurring basis when they are actively in use.
for example, data from healthcare providers can be an invaluable source for ai systems capable of performing diagnoses or analyzing past patient history to discover better treatment strategies.
a/is created from personal experiences is different from ai created from farming or climate data.
● tech monoculture:  the global spread of new digital technologies such as smartphones, social media, and virtual assistants, all designed by a relatively homogenous culture of technologists who cannot represent or anticipate the full diversity of human experience, needs, and values
ai offers immense potential to businesses and society.
as ai capabilities develop and are increasingly deployed in both the commercial and noncommercial worlds, the ethics surrounding use of artificial intelligence have spurred a growing body of research.
these intelligent machines do not merely calculate better than human beings, they also look for, process and disseminate information.
2.2.1 from questions about the common good to questions about ai for the common good
 culture of innovation and collaboration – establishing the analytics culture will empower and encourage innovation and collaboration within the public sector, within the private sector, and between both sectors.
we currently are in a state where adding more data and more sensors is often seen as the solution, and yet this does not address the core issues of how to increase human performance given these information increases.
for other examples of data collaboration, see stefaan g. verhulst and andrew young, “how the data that internet companies collect can be used for the public good,” harvard business review, january 23, 2018.
the use of data analytics to derive new inferences and insights into both personal data and technical metadata raises new questions about what types of information should be considered pii.
5 ais must not be developed or used with the aim of limiting the free expression of ideas or the opportunity to hear diverse opinions, both of which being essential conditions of a democratic society.
an example is using ai to create solutions that help  re ghters determine safe paths through burning buildings using data from iot devices.
there is a clear disconnect between what canadians think and know about ai and what it really is.
robot ethics: the ethical and social implications of robotics.
as the business and economics research arm of mckinsey & company, mgi aims to provide leaders in the commercial, public, and social sectors with the facts and insights on which to base management and policy decisions.
big data principles have to be considered as part of the methods.
in analogy with penetration attacks, i will propose ethics pen-testing as a method for helping ai designs to better contribute to the common good.
if we continue at the current pace to implement humane, just and inclusive ai governance, canada can be a global ai leader.inclusion and diversity in work groups: a review and model for future research
grey flickr iconcross-sector collaboration in data science for social good:
a/is will also be subject to regional regulation, for example under the general data protection regulation (gdpr), european citizens may have specific rights of redress where ai or as has been used.
ethics: effort to understand what we ought to do and what counts as moral or good.
“disruptive technologies: advances that will transform life, business, and the global economy” (report), may 2013.
• educate the public on societal impacts of related technologies
in the earlier example discussing personalization (see issue 1), an a/is of a racist user who demands the a/is use derogatory language for certain social groups might have
we do not yet know just how it will unfold, but one thing is clear: the response to it must be integrated and comprehensive, involving all stakeholders of the global polity, from the public and private sectors to academia and civil society.
3 zwitter a (2014) big data ethics.
“autonomous weapons and human control” (poster).
instead, our discussions of ai have tended to use the language of silicon valley, with concepts like “disruption,” and the “fourth industrial revolution.” the hype around ai can foreclose the usual policy debates, making ai seem like a complete disruption rather than part of a much larger pattern of technological change in society.
it was only in june 2018 (after numerous failures and intense scrutiny), that google, one of the world’s leading organizations in the development of ai for nearly a decade,_published seven principles_ “that actively govern our research and product development and will impact our business decisions.” organizations early in their journey with ai can take advantage of these learnings, allocating resources to address ethics early on.
concerns about the accountability of ai — both generally and specifically in the context of legal decisions — should not be lightly dismissed.
for example, the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists holds its members both to the american medical association’s code of ethics (that applies to all
the project recommends tools and services that help employees make informed decisions with their personal information.
users build a relationship with ai and start to trust it after just a few meaningful interactions.
this require- ment appears pertinent and useful to all design “for good”.
tems and thereby reduce, annihilate, or even reverse positive effects on the common good.
• european parliament resolution of 16 february 2017 with recommendations to the commission on civil law rules on robotics.
criticschallengethis‘technologicalsolutionism’asignoringtheunderlying social, political, and economic ills that perpetuate ethical failures in society, and placing unwarranted faith in superficial ‘techno-fixes’ as opposed to more robust social, political, and economic reforms.
principles, policies and laws for the responsible use of ai
 scaling up ai usage for social good will require overcoming some signi cant bottlenecks, especially around data accessibility and talent.
the second used electric power to create mass production.
39% of canadians think they will be using them within the next five years for personal use
technology assessment (ta) is concerned with the consequences of technical developments, and some of its topics have moral dimensions.
the geography of ai for social good is, for now, also quite narrow.
3) people must always have the right to digital disconnection in their private lives, and ais should explicitly offer the option to disconnect at regular intervals, without encouraging people to stay connected.
those activities should involve the use of existing structures and can be implemented as joint projects between science and business in various application fields in germany.
more specifically, by approaching diversity management as activities related to the hiring and utilization of personnel from different cultural and social backgrounds (cox & blake, 1991), current research has assumed the inclu- sion of diverse individuals into organizations.
raise public awareness around the issues of potential a/is technology misuse in an informed and measured way by:
while the use cases in our library provide coverage of ai being applied to social good around the world, most of the organizations behind these initiatives are based in the united states.. this likely is a result of the concentration of high-level ai expertise, and it raises questions of how organizations with that expertise can better connect to communities around the world.
while we have more work to do on information diversity and misinformation, i am even more focused on the impact of sensationalism and polarization, and the idea of building common understanding.
as a response to these challenges, we designed the moral machine, a multilingual online ‘serious game’ for collecting large-scale data on how citizens would want autonomous vehicles to solve moral dilemmas in the context of unavoidable accidents.
and as it becomes more and more common for academics to repurpose data collected by non-researchers rather than collect primary data with their own research instruments (as is the case with most dssg projects), irb’s face new challenges in determining the boundaries of their jurisdiction and establishing acceptable norms.
 reduced duplication of data and associated technical solutions, improved efficiencies, cost savings and resource utilization.
here the problem is how to leverage the experience and the knowledge of domain experts who know little or nothing of ai.
thanks to facebook’s technology, the russians – as well as alt-right organizations intent on spreading misinformation inside the united states – could target their campaign to swing-state voters.
16 s.benhamou (2018): the w orld of work: in 2030: four scenarios in work in the digital age: challenges of the fourth industrial revolution, ed.
however, to improve diagnosis of additional skin cancers not included in the initial model and continue to increase accuracy, further technical work by ai talent with high-level expertise will likely be needed.
social capital, as our contemporary delphic oracles spread wisdom through social networks, likes and retweets governing what we see and influencing how we see (if many people, in particular those we want to think like and be like, like something, we’ll want to like it too), our critical faculties on amphetamines as thoughtful consideration and deliberation means missing the boat, gut invective the only response fast enough to keep pace before the opportunity to get a few more followers passes us by, delphi sprouting boredom like a 5 o’clock shadow, already on to the next big thing.
it’s a political, social, and even mythological phenomenon that has consequences for how we organize our lives and express our values.1 whatever ethical principles are developed in connection with data, they should account for dynamics that extend beyond technical limitations.
 applied research in coordination with experts from the application domains of ai utilizing real-world metrics to assess the quality of results including the definition of “grand challenges” or “competitions” in well-targeted domains 21;
as ai complements and accelerates automation, policymakers in countries around the world recognize that it will be an important driver of economic growth in the decades ahead.
we acknowledge the potential for these technologies to be used for good and to promote human rights but also the potential to intentionally or inadvertently discriminate against individuals or groups of people.
for example, the monetary authority of singapore has established a controlled environment for financial technology, which is not surprising given the widespread use and impact of trading algorithms in financial markets.
in addition, users should have the right to be informed, possibly through an interactive training program, on the areas of uncertainty, risks, and circumstances where safety or harm issues could arise, without this increasing user’s accountability for a/is decision-making consequences.
a clear requirement for an ethical a/is is therefore that the system be able to explain its own reasoning to a user, when asked (or, ideally, also when suspecting the user’s confusion), and the system should do so at a level of ordinary human reasoning, not with incomprehensible technical detail (tintarev and kutlak, 2014).
ian kerr, who holds the canada research chair in ethics, law & technology at the university of ottawa faculty of law, recently co-edited robot law, a book about the intersection of law, robotics and artificial intelligence.
keeping our community safe does not require compromising privacy.
erik brynjolfsson and andrew mcafee, from the mit initiative on the digital economy, called these developments the “most important general-purpose technology of our era.” ai is poised to have a transformational impact on economic production, and although it is already used in thousands of companies around the world, they expect that most big opportunities have not yet been tapped.
to a proposed design, with the intention of “attack- ing” the good intentions, the claim to a contribution to the common good – as a critical and adversar- ial method for identifying weaknesses not in order to “fix” the design or make it unequivocally good (because this is impossible), but in order to make it better.
although providing definitions of the constructs of interest was beneficial in creating a consistent basis of interpretation among respondents, it also restricted the lens through which they interpreted the constructs of diversity and inclusion.
not all ai models are complex, and work is under way to design neural network models that are more readily explainable.
public comments are invited on the second version of ethically aligned design: a vision for prioritizing human well-being with autonomous and intelligent systems (a/is) that encourages technologists to prioritize ethical considerations in the creation of such systems.
to understand the last of the problems described above — a case where it’s hard to connect your immediate actions to a consequence — think about learning to play a video game.
while their interpretation may change over time, human rights as defined by international law, provide a unilateral basis of creating any a/is system as they affect humans, their emotions, data, or agency.
best practices remain an unresolved issue among practitioners when working with communities with fewer resources, low literacy, lower connectivity, and less understanding about digital privacy.
2) ais development must help eliminate relationships of domination between groups and people based on differences of power, wealth, or knowledge.
in sub-saharan africa, just 17% of the population were mobile internet subscribers in 2013, but penetration is forecast to increase to 37% by 2020–making the generation, storage, use, and sharing of personal data in the developing world an issue that will continue to gain gravity.
this is technically difficult as it requires building ai that can read and understand news, but we need to work on this to help fight terrorism worldwide.
second, if the recommendations or predictions of ai systems are used to help inform consequential decisions about people, we believe it will be critical that people are primarily accountable for these decisions.
mcphail said the possible repercussions o’neill proposed is helpful in reminding people to think about how their information is used and who might have a vested interest in collecting it.
for this reason, the ethical infrastructures, concepts, and norms that have been developed to handle compartmentalized data are often neither salient nor applicable—how data moves in time and space is
developing ai for these groups and/or relevant use cases involving them may still require researchers to consider various perspectives and problem versions, but the scope is much more limited than the “for all” (members of a given community) of the com- mon good.
since it security researchers and professionals know this, pen-testing is considered valuable and integral to development.
resolving such conflicts requires priority structures among norms, which help determine whether, in a given context, adhering to one norm is more important than adhering to another norm.
the purpose of these workshops is to promote informed and thoughtful discussions across canada about the future of ai technology, its impact on society, and potential public policy actions that can be taken to mitigate risks and maximize benefits.
the creative community writ large can leverage ar as an instrument of new media content creation, public media production, and artistic expression, which could result in a freer, more effective use of public space, as well as
by providing all stakeholders with suf cient time to identify and articulate key principles guiding the development of responsible and trustworthy ai, and to implement these principles by adopting and re ning best practices.
our approach to ai is making the fundamental ai building blocks like computer vision, speech, and knowledge recognition available to every individual
data by itself does not possess value—we must process and use the data to enable decision making and analysis.
however, having a high level of lmx in a diverse work group contrib- uted to the greatest amount of turnover when the manager had good relations with most, but not all, followers.
ultimately, determining the full range of work needed to address possible bias in ai systems will require ongoing discussions that include a wide range of interested
healthcare is an interesting example: while it can be a profit-oriented business model, the focus in the domain of ai for (social) good appears to lie on the provision of healthcare to broader sections of society (see “for all” above).
discrimination is defined under international law as “any distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference which is based on any ground such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status, and which has the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise by all persons, on an equal footing, of all rights and freedoms.” this list is non-exhaustive as the united nations high commissioner for human rights has recognized the necessity of preventing discrimination against additional classes.
created by the coalition for inclusive capitalism and ey, this project has brought together a collection of participants with both market strength and diversity across the entire investment chain, representing us$30 trillion of assets under management and almost 2 million employees around the world.
because of its ability to operate on massive data sets with speed, precision and accuracy that outpace human capacities, ai is beginning to be applied, or is being contemplated, in healthcare, transportation, law and order, defense, finance—virtually every sector of the economy— to support and in some cases substitute human analysis and decision-making.
in a world where one’s very perception has been delegated to software, unprecedented levels of trust in systems
for instance, according to the u.s. census bureau, the standard of living, measured by gdp per capita, increased 21.7 times from 1820 to 1998. average life expectancy at birth doubled during the last 150 years, from 38 years in 1850 to 76 years by the late 1990s.
the sizable changes in the participation behaviour of women and men in the post-war period provide an ideal setting to examine the relationship between labour force participation and unemployment over a long horizon.
well-being metrics are designed to measure the efficacy of the implementation of methodologies and policy related to individual and societal flourishing.
specifically, we would like to ensure that stakeholders are working with sensible and comprehensive shared definitions, particularly for key concepts relevant to autonomous weapons systems (aws).
light green denotes personal life
organizations with large data sets include telecommunications and satellite companies, social media platforms, financial institutions (for details such as credit history), hospitals, doctors and other health providers (medical information), and governments (including private individuals’ tax information).
this process of de ning and specifying automated decision systems would help build agency capacity for the procurement and assessment of future systems, as experience with aias would help guide requests for proposals, budgeting, and other key milestones in the acquisition process.
a/is regulation, development, and deployment should, therefore, be based on international human rights standards and standards of international humanitarian laws (in the case
4) people who authorize ais to commit a crime or an offence, or demonstrate negligence by allowing ais to commit them, are responsible for this crime or offence.
the montreal declaration for responsible artificial intelligence (ai) can be found at https://www.montrealdeclaration-responsibleai.com/the-declaration.
the application of ai will never result in promoting the well-being of all sentient creatures.
hussain [7] gives more details about the that: “the common good is [.
in their presentations, my students questioned how we talk about, describe and imagine the impacts of ai.
one example might be “there is a 70 percent likelihood that the applicant will default on the loan.” the ai system may be highly accurate, meaning that if the bank extends credit every time to people with the 70 percent “risk of default,” 70 percent
the study – “‘you’re fired,’ says the robot: the rise of automation in the workplace, technophobes, and fears of unemployment” – is published in social science computer review, a peer-reviewed publication in its 35th year.
the association of internet researchers (aoir) developed an ethics code
the reliance on artificial support may have a net negative impact on society.
2. tanweer & fiore-gartland’s modification of drew conway’s data science venn diagram to reflect additional expertise that is critical to data science for social good.
after all, ida hoos is clear that she’s not out to indict the computer: “there need not be any machine breaking, such as took place in the seventeenth century, when the workers hurled their sabots into the machines to destroy them (giving rise to the term ‘sabotage’).” but she stresses that we need a more balanced view of technology introduction in order to apply “thought and action to important problems faced by management, labor, and the public at large.” study, study, study this, she seems to be saying.
• bamberger, k. “technologies of compliance: risk and regulation in the digital age.” texas law review 88, no.
on the supply side, many industries are seeing the introduction of new technologies that create entirely new ways of serving existing needs and significantly disrupt existing industry value chains.
even if a model achieves a desired level of accuracy on test data, new or unanticipated failure cases can often emerge in real-life scenarios.
in this mode, users are presented with a series of dilemmas in which the autonomous vehicle must decide between two different outcomes.
these initiatives offer promising starting points and have the potential to contribute positive and significant results within their individual mandates; much can be learned and transferred from them.
the ai hleg is working on two deliverables, namely (1) draft ai ethics guidelines and (2) ai policy and investment recommendations.
dssg teams need to view social issues from multi- ple perspectives, realizing that different communities and interest groups have [different and] sometimes conflicting stakes in the way social problems are por- trayed and addressed.
another quick and dirty way to get into ai tech, their algorithms optimize ad campaigns by targeting and matching people with similar characteristics to create lookalike campaigns.
languages, art, history, economics, ethics, philosophy, psychology and human development courses can teach critical, philosophical and ethics-based skills that will be instrumental in the development and management of ai solutions.
computers still may have a hard time understanding speech in a noisy environment where people speak over one another or when presented with unfamiliar accents or languages.
privacy commission approves surveillance transparency and oversight law,” east bay express, jan. 6, 2017, https:// www.eastbayexpress.com/sevendays/archives/2017/01/06/oakland-privacy-commission-approves-surveillance- transparency-and-oversight-law.
the transformation of work is likely to be significant in terms of the tasks or processes that will be automated.
box 3. ten steps to ai deployment for social good, and some barriers to overcome: a checklist
ex post, the ambivalence that existed in the begin- ning tends to be cognitively minimized and the result is taken to be the truth (even if it did result from decisions that might just as well have been made otherwise), cf.
it appears from the definitions put forward by this community (see section 2.3) as well as the conference survey (see section 5.2) that social good may well be produced by considering only or mainly one, potentially very specific, stake- holder group (such as poultry farmers in africa [83] or citizens registering as unemployed in one city [84]).
however, to ensure such a positive impact, more support for r&d, with a particular eye for the ethical impact
• meaningful human control over the critical functions in weapons systems can help ensure that weapons can be used in conformity with the law in each instance.
these forms of knowledge are first and foremost about understanding the experiences of the people involved in and affected by the project.
industry leaders and figures have long cried for a regulatory mechanism surrounding ai development, but the potential impacts on establishing an innovation-focused industry make this suggestion difficult to implement.instead, coordination with industry figures should rely on the creation of standards that developers would be encouraged to follow.
the notion of benefit also invites different readings: is it an individual’s or a group’s utility in a welfare consequentialist sense, and/or is it based on values beyond this?
similarly, advances in open-source ai libraries have substantially simpli ed many of the tasks previously requiring signi cant programming skill and knowledge of ai algorithms.
on the basis of a unilateral dichotomization of each of the six attributes, resulting in two subpopulations for each, the difference in probability (δp) has a positive value for all considered subpopulations.
for a detailed discussion of financial inclusion, see digital finance for all: powering inclusive growth in emerging economies, mckinsey global institute, september 2016, and the global financial inclusion database, world bank.
talent: the way companies manage their human capital when it comes to compensation and benefits; recruitment; training and development; diversity and inclusion; well-being and creating a purpose-driven culture of engagement.
yes, ai interaction with human beings should be minimized just like humans should minimize interaction with non-living computing machines.
(compas’ not using race as an explicit input made no difference: housing is very segregated in much of the us, very much so in broward county, and so knowing somebody’s address is as good as knowing their race.)
the first provides information on work to date in this domain and sets out various concepts and distinctions worth noting when thinking about accountability and trust in ai.
non-algorithmic) systems are not interrogated as intensely as ai systems.10 in other words, it is important to understand the risks posed by ai as well as the risks posed by the status quo.
in the area of clinical practice the american psychological association’s ethical code provides a clear and well-endorsed set of guidelines that can serve as good starting point for understanding and proactively addressing some of the issues for the creation and use
as a result, amateur pictures of white people with cell phone cameras turn out reasonably well, but amateur pictures of black people — especially dark- skinned people — often come out underexposed.
relying on a negligence standard that is already applicable to software generally to assign responsibility for harm caused by ai is the best way for policymakers and regulators to balance innovation and consumer safety, and promote certainty for developers and users of the technology.
the standard includes (but is not limited to): clear procedures for measuring, testing, and certifying a system’s ability to fail safely on a scale from weak to strong, and instructions for improvement in the case of unsatisfactory performance.
the articles in this special feature will examine some of the ethical and social issues associated with ai and deep learning, including its impact on areas such as cybersecurity, journalism, justice, health care, urban planning and transit.
 related potential risks to consider and mitigate: data and model bias, data privacy violations.
for this reason, barocas and nissenbaum (2014) suggest replacing the standard of informed consent with a standard of contextual integrity, which would account for the reasonable expectations that users and citizens have for the flow of information about themselves.
autonomous weapons designers should support the considerations of the united nations to adopt a protocol to ensure meaningful human control over aws under the convention on certain conventional weapons (ccw) treaty, or other similar effort by other international bodies seeking a binding international treaty.
these entities have posited questions such as, “should the law treat such systems as legal ‘persons,’ with all the rights and responsibilities that personhood entails?” such status seems initially remarkable until consideration is given to the long-standing legal personhood status granted to corporations, governmental entities, and the like — none
from birth, the different roles individuals take on in life provide specific contexts to the data they generate.
 soft law, such as development and utilization guidelines and principles, can eventually become de facto hard law as these standards are increasingly viewed as baselines of responsibility to avoid negligence.
it can contribute to solving problems ranging from identifying fraud based on tax return data to  nding patterns of insights in electronic health records that would be very hard for humans to discover.
the findings of study 1, which used a qualitative methodology to explore the construct definitions and to derive a measure of attributes to support diversity and inclusion, revealed conceptually distinct definitions.
this opens an opportunity for consistent ethical pressure and for the attribution of responsibility to human beings and not to inanimate objects.
 w ork towards policies and coordination mechanisms for addressing ai accountability and trust issues.
it is not necessary that ai technology be human-like or have highly generalized intelligence.
safety and beneficence of artificial general intelligence (agi) and artificial superintelligence (asi)
the kick o  mee ng has been a great opportunity to meet “live” the european academic partners, our project o cer simona losmanova from rea and the in- dependent ethical advisor prof. be na berendt from university of leuven.
a more flexible approach begins by collecting examples of messages that human readers have rejected, along with messages they approved.
dark green denotes work life
ai tools have the potential to unlock new realms of scientilc research and knowledge in critical domains like biology, chemistry, medicine, and environmental sciences.
the talent required might include engineers who can maintain or improve on the models, data scientists who can extract meaningful output from ai models, and so on.
or evaluate an individual teacher’s performance or e ectiveness in the classroom.” in a criminal justice agency, similar wording might yield a de nition that includes “systems, tools, or statistical models used to measure or evaluate an individual criminal defendant’s risk of reo ending.”
even in ordinary, everyday work, a lack of empathy based on shared needs and abilities disadvantages not only the liberty of individuals but also the corporations and governments that exist to serve them, by eliminating opportunities for useful innovation.
41% of suppliers see challenges in measuring and proving the business value of the ai solution
as a firm, we believe that material environmental, social, and governance factors contribute positively to long-term financial and societal value.
research on diversity climates, which highlights workforce demog- raphy, personal value for and comfort with diversity, fairness, and inclusion as dimensions of employees’ diversity climate perceptions, also suggests a distinction between the concepts of diversity and inclusion (kossek & zonia, 1993; mor barak, cherin, & berkman, 1998).
epistemic values are related to knowledge: they allow us, for example, to qualify an argument as valid or invalid, clear or unclear, pertinent or trivial.
it’s clear from the chairs’ comments that the p7000 standards are in development, and are anticipating business and societal concerns that will (or may) arise from the proliferation of personal data and artificial intelligence in our daily lives.
most appropriate for addressing injuries arising from the deployment and use of ai systems.
from back office to boardroom, warehouse to storefront, desktop to mobile device – sap empowers people and organizations to work together more efficiently and use business insight more effectively to stay ahead of the competition.
microsoft and its linkedin subsidiary are already experimenting with new ways to understand which skills are currently in demand and how to help people gain them.50 for example, linkedin is working with the national cybersecurity center (ncc) and the university of colorado at colorado springs to identify the most in-demand cybersecurity occupations in the united states and map the skills needed to be hired for those jobs.
[36, 37]) have argued that problem definition #3 stands behind us laws that penalize the use and dealing of drugs traditionally associated with poor and black users (crack cocaine) far heavier than that of similar drugs traditionally more preva- lent among affluent white users (powder cocaine).
although forecasts as to the scale of job losses resulting from the deployment of ai over the next 20 years range from a conservative 5% to a catastrophic 100% leading to a jobless society, the rapporteur believes it more likely that, as a recent mckinsey report anticipates, elements or parts of jobs, rather than entire jobs, will be swept away by ai.
keeping the global community safe is an important part of our mission -- and an important part of how we'll measure our progress going forward.
are social institutions and practices.” one example of such institutions and practices is a scheme of private property.
this is why microsoft made  rm commitments to protect the security and privacy of our customers’ data, and why we
additionally, manufacturers of these systems must be able to provide programmatic-level accountability proving why a system operates in certain ways to address legal issues of culpability, if necessary apportion culpability among several responsible designers, manufacturers, owners, and/or operators, to avoid confusion or fear within the general public.
how will we manage ai, improve it, or at the very least prevent it from doing harm, culminating in the most ominous concern: that ai, by mastering certain competencies more rapidly and definitively than humans, could over time diminish human competence and the human condition itself as it turns it into data.
in fact, as has been argued in this context (tazzioli, 2016) as well as in connec on with other applica ons of big data analyses to hu- manitarian causes (taylor, 2017), there is a tempta on to focus on migrants as a group de ned only by one feature (here: to be in need of rescue).
of intelligence, and is focused on integrating research from all  elds of ai research in order to solve some of ai’s most dif cult challenges.
it develops further in the notions of caring and sharing as well as identity and belonging, whereby people experience their lives as bound up with their community.
machine ethics pays attention to the morality of autonomous machines such as agents, chatbots, algorithmic trading computers, robots of different stripes, and unmanned ground or air vehicles.
(beyond that, for legal drugs there tends to be a separation between permitting the intoxication as an expres- sion of personal freedoms, and the sanctioning of crimes if they occur.)
aligned design: a vision for prioritizing human well-being with autonomous and intelligent systems, version 2. ieee, 2017. http://standards.
finally, as with other technologies and products, the people who design and deploy ai systems must be accountable for how their systems operate.
5. for disruptive technologies, such as driverless cars, a certain level of transparency to wider society is needed to build public confidence in the technology, promote safer practices, and facilitate wider societal adoption.
taking full advantage means companies must incorporate analytics into their strategic vision and use it to make better, faster decisions.
 q1: what are some shared principles for artificial intelligence (ai) accountability in all sectors?
integrating applied ethics into education and research to address the issues of autonomous and intelligent systems (a/is) requires an interdisciplinary approach, bringing together humanities, social sciences, science, engineering, and other disciplines.
the types of work that can be emulated, adapted, and proliferated, regarding ethical best practices around a/is to best honor human rights:
but the innovations that have allowed computing to reshape everyday life in recent decades should not really be understood as a mass of new algorithms.
• parties, their lawyers, and courts must have reasonable access to all data and information generated and used by such systems employed by governments and other
the forming of the individual character (ethos) is intrinsically related to others, as well as to the tasks of administration of work within the family (oikos) and eventually all this expands into the framework of the polis, or public space (poleis).
while some parts of government have invested heavily in data analytics capabilities, other areas are only beginning to realise the potential of the data they possess.
to behave in a way that is beneficial to people beyond reaching functional goals and addressing technical problems.
this report contributes to mgi’s mission to help business and policy leaders understand the forces transforming the global economy, identify strategic locations, and prepare for the next wave of growth.
1. government stakeholders should identify the types of decisions and operations that should never be delegated to a/is, such as when to use lethal force, and adopt rules and standards that ensure effective human control over those decisions.
neither technology nor the disruption that comes with it is an exogenous force over which humans have no control.
“as business leaders, we see basic income as good economics and enlightened self-interest: it is a pro-growth, pro-business, pro-free-market economic stimulus that will grow the economy and create jobs,” says the letter signed by ceos such as michael tamblyn of kobo inc. and james tonn of podium publishing.
legal “personhood” (as is applied to humans and certain types of human organizations) is one possible option for framing such legal treatment, and the implications of granting that status to a/is applications raises issues that have implications in multiple domains of human interaction beyond technical issues.
designed as a tool to allow any individual to essentially create their own personal “terms and conditions” for their data, the ai agent will provide a technological tool for individuals to manage and control their identity in the digital and virtual world.
maintaining meaningful human control and accountability of medical, judicial, governmental, employment, educational, and military decisions is increasingly challenging.
enter the 10 year challenge meme – the perfect source, according to o’neill, because users have helpfully provided dates and context for the photos to provide a “clean, simple, helpfully labeled set of then-and-now photos.”
• commanders and operators should be trained to understand and assess confidence in the behavior of a system under specific contexts and scope of operations.
36 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
because the preference for sparing the many and the preference for sparing the young are arguably the most important for policymakers to consider, this split between individualistic and collectivistic cultures may prove an important obstacle for universal machine ethics (see supplementary information).
but, to understand better what ai will mean for our shared economic future, we should look past the headlines.
an ecosystem of data trusts would have the advantage of providing individual choice over who is best placed to manage their data.
one frequent theme in current ethical guidelines is the requirement that ai be good for all, or: con- tribute to the common good.
academic research has a sordid history of ethical transgressions that prompted universities to institutionalize practices and procedures to atone for those misdeeds and prevent future harms (childress, meslin, & shapiro, 2005; national commission for the protection of human subjects of biomedical and behavioral research, 1979).
as a third reason, the authors men on that “adversarial users could take advantage of the data to track the loca on of individual refu- gees [iden  ed by record linkage with data such as photos or statements, or other background knowledge], a ack rescue boats or guide piracy opera ons” (p. 40).
15along similar lines, the world w ide w eb (w w w ) foundation identifies princ iples of algorithm ic ac c ountability, including: fairness, explainability, auditability, responsibility, and accuracy.16
the idea is not to divide the amount of economic resources equally between the 99% human beings or equally between the total number of autonomous entities on earth.
it is based on moral norms and values.
but it is a daunting proposition to explain how such principles can hold when data about individuals is persistently shared, transformed, and aggregated and when future uses
she retired from the university in 1982. over the years, she also served on committees at the national science foundation, the national academy of sciences, nasa and the department of energy.
the willingness of government to partner with and promote its industry contacts could impede its ability to hold these firms accountable.
to help during a crisis, we've built infrastructure like safety check so we can all let our friends know we're safe and check on friends who might be affected by an attack or natural disaster.
the risk is that homogeneous design does not properly anticipate the real-world applications of technologies, creating ai that reflects the biases of the teams that worked on it.
dr. hoos was largely unfazed by being a woman in what was seen as a man’s field.
in the gdpr in the eu, there is a requirement for a privacy impact assessment.
odt (brewer, 1991: 477) explains tensions associated with “human needs for validation and similarity to others (on the one hand) and a countervailing need for uniqueness and individuation (on the other).” brewer argued that individuals seek to balance these two needs through an optimal level of inclusion in groups to which they belong.
“the impact of robots on productivity, employment and jobs,” a positioning paper by the international federation of robotics, april 2017.
a key concern is how legal commitments of transparency, participation, and accuracy can be guaranteed when algorithmic- based a/is make important decisions about individuals.
we surveyed canadians by asking them: to what extent do you agree or disagree that canadian government and businesses should assume the responsibility to tackle the risks and challenges ai poses to society?
human factors need to be front-and-center throughout the design and testing process, particularly with regard not only to efficacy of
however, it is a more realistic goal to embed explicit norms into such systems because norms can be considered instructions to act in defined ways in defined contexts, for a specific community (from family to town to country and beyond).
the advantage of sdl solutions is that they reduce the need for domain expertise or for an innate understanding of the data by automating aspects of basic feature engineering, the process of selecting and encoding the features in the data that will be most relevant.
• reduce internal con icts; strengthen the sense of common purpose among members of the organization
dr. hoos urged national decision makers to take such assessments “with a large measure of skepticism lest they lead us to regrettable, if not disastrous, conclusions.”
(2010, 2011, 2017), where women and men experience shocks to their opportunity costs of working that may lead them to leave the labour force.
the ability of an organization to use ai to augment human decision-making and provide value to consumers could be a defining factor in whether a business succeeds or fails in the years to come.
in efficient and agreeable moral outcomes.
19% of canadians will be using them in the next 10 to 20 years for work life
ensuring that all can benefit from the deployment of ai in key sectors
 process - establish goa data management, exchange and interoperability standards, and manage changes and business process improvement.
54. just as more accurate and up-to-date data is needed to understand evolving jobs and needed skills, more data also is needed to better under- stand how employer and employee relationships and working conditions are evolving, including how the nature of work is changing.
3. if an a/is causes harm it must always be possible to discover the root cause, by assuring traceability for said harm (see also principle 4 — transparency).
in the present example, one as- signment of these roles that follows the argument about risks above could be: the ngo as the data owner, the migrant (or migrant group) as the data respond- ent, and various (poten al) data users: the public, poli cians, pirates, ...
it’s addressed “to our community,” and within a few sentences mr. zuckerberg asks his company’s two billion or so users a straightforward question: “are we building the world we all want?”
second, that in achieving intended goals, ai may change human thought processes and human values.
over the past few years, artificial intelligence has matured considerably and is becoming the main driver for digitalization and autonomous systems in all areas of life.
these codes provide the broad framework for the more focused domain addressed in this document, and it is our hope that the inclusive, consensus-building process around its design will contribute unique value to technologists and society as a whole.
public and social sector
automated decision systems are currently being used by public agencies, reshaping how criminal justice systems work via risk assessment algorithms1 and predictive policing,2 optimizing energy use in critical infrastructure through ai-driven resource allocation,3 and changing our employment4 and educational systems through automated evaluation tools5 and matching algorithms.6
the team sprung into action and disabled the offending characterization, as well as several other potentially risky ones, until they could solve the underlying issue.
initiatives like the [fast track institute][77] and a variety of [urban innovation experiences][78] around the globe are worth of being highlighted — in fact, it seems to me that the positive use of new technologies is much more concrete and have more chances to succeed at the city level.
“predictions” are what comes out the other end: when you present the model with some set of features, it will generally give you a bunch of possible outcomes, and its best understanding of the likelihood of each.
this offers a tremendous opportunity for addressing some of the most difficult societal challenges (sustainability, health care, demography).
if we are hoping to prime and prepare them for a lifelong career using data science skills in the service of social good while working for public institutions or non- profit organizations, then in addition to the arguments we made in the section about expertise, this is further reason to provide students with a systematic and experiential orientation to the cultures and practices of partner organizations.
to metrics from a trusted source like the world health organization, academic institutions testing early versions of systems would be more able to attain needed funding to advance an a/is well- being study overall.
by the threatner, look on mee, mee who have touch’d and tasted, yet both live, and life more perfet have attaind then fate meant mee, by ventring higher then my lot.
combine that asset with society’s growing expertise in the sprawling world of ai, and all of a sudden the general public has a fairly strong negotiating position.
as human creators, our most fundamental values are imposed on the systems we design.
the recommended initiatives include that germany should aim to achieve that a higher percentage of ai expertise being developed at german research institutes and universities will be made available for creating value in germany and europe.
6 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
governance: the norms and values held by society, which are structured through various formal and informal processes of decision-making to ensure accountability, stability, broad participation, and the rule of law.
13) liberty and privacy: the application of ai to personal data must not unreasonably curtail people’s real or perceived liberty.
those who create augmented/mixed reality experiences need to clearly define the purpose of the designed reality.
this will allow for an elevated level of trust between people and technology that is needed for its fruitful, pervasive use in our daily lives.
second age of machine intelligence: work progress and prosperity in a time of brilliant technologies.
these need high-level ai expertise, that is, people who may have phds or considerable experience with the technologies—and who are in short supply.
to outline the field, i have selected four that i believe are most influential and representative of “ai for (some version of) good”.
ai is driving changes at three levels in the business world.
as we look ahead to building the social infrastructure for a global community, we will work on building new tools that encourage thoughtful civic engagement.
but humans must be absolutely strong and totally independent from ai.
this way, models could be run during the design phase of a system, product, or service to predict how it could improve or potentially harm end users, analogous to human rights assessments provided by the united nations guiding principles reporting framework.
if you tune into the political discussions around artificial intelligence (ai) and deep learning, much of what you’ll hear centres squarely on its economic potential.
while the on-demand economy has the potential to promote greater labor force participation, many concerns have been raised about its impact on working conditions and worker protections.
government may want to consider practising what it preaches and adopt ai itself: a technology-enabled, ai-smart public service could not only be more efficient and provide better services.
greater national investment in ethical a/is research and development would stimulate the economy, create high-value jobs, and improve governmental services to society.
“engineering moral agents — from human morality to artificial morality” (dagstuhl seminar 16222).
ai systems are already helping people tackle big problems.
but if you had used these images to train your grey cat detector, you might get excellent performance when the model tries to rate your training pictures, and terrible performance in the real world, because what the model actually learned was “grey cats are cat-shaped things which sit on carpets.”
widespread data collection followed by the emergence of a/is and other automated/ autonomous data processing has placed tremendous strain on existing conceptions
a/is are expected to have an impact beyond market domains and business models.
many governments have produced formal ai strategies to promote the use and development of ai, and most include speci c sections on the development of ethics regulations.11
terms like “artificial intelligence”
the internet’s purpose is to ratify knowledge through the accumulation and manipulation of ever expanding data.
in this regard, well-being metrics can be complementary to the goals of human rights, but cannot and should not be used as
i propose to apply this mindset in ai design and call the result- ing method ethics pen-testing.
this can be as simple as “when i turn the wheel left, the car tends to turn left, too,” or as complicated as trying to understand a person’s entire life and tastes.
commit to building the world’s best ai ecosystem: the winning ai cluster will create many high-paying jobs and create spillover effects for the middle class – but the also-rans will not.
more specifically, thomas and ely identify the discrimination-and-fairness paradigm, which involves a focus on equal opportunity, fair treatment, recruitment, and compliance, and the access-and-legitimacy paradigm, which focuses on matching workforce demographics with those of key consumer groups to expand and better serve specialized market segments, as the most common approaches to diversity management.
• the japanese society for artificial intelligence ethical guidelines, 2017
self-verification theory is another social psychological theory that holds promise for building upon the value for the uniqueness theme present in our inclusion framework.
target population that would not otherwise exist—especially in use cases that involve understanding the natural environment through interpretation of vision, sound, and speech.
yet, the responsibility for resulting errors and harms remains with the humans that design, build, test, and employ these systems.
the debates in the working groupwere fed into the draft report on civil law rules on robotics written by mep delvaux.
if we didn’t have a huge chunk of our brain doing nothing but recognizing faces, people would look about as different to us as armadillos do — which is just what happens to computers.
likewise, at a panel discussion on cross-sector collaboration in data science convened by the authors of this paper, participants from a number of sectors recognized that when public agencies collaborate with academia and other sectors, one of the benefits to governmental actors is that they are able to defer and diffuse the ethical risks involved.
one of the lessons for ai and the future is that we’ll all need to be alert and agile to the impact of this new technology
• the approach developed by the internet research task force’s human rights protocol research group (hrpc) for integrating human rights concern in technical design.
the w w w foundation describes a “critical” distinction between “algorithmic accountability—the responsibility of algorithm designers to provide evidence of potential or realised harms,” and “algorithmic justice—the ability to provide redress from harms.”17 their reason for making this distinction is the worry that focusing on redress as a means of addressing accountability distracts from a critical opportunity available to algorithm designers and engineers to anticipate harms before the ai is deployed.
many existing use cases that use analytics could benefit from structured deep learning, which is greatly underused today.
they defined climate for opportunity as “an individual’s overall perception of the fairness of the organization in terms of the manage- ment processes used to allocate opportunities, including interpersonal treatment, and the distribution of opportunities in the organizational context.” chrobot-mason and thomas (2002) proposed that both individuals and organizations have a racial identity and that four different types of employer–employee relationships can result from these identities.
9) responsibility: designers and builders of advanced ai systems are stakeholders in the moral implications of their use, misuse, and actions, with a responsibility and opportunity to shape those implications.
“geneth: a general ethical dilemma analyzer.” proceedings of the twenty-eighth aaai conference on artificial intelligence (2014): 253–261.
this paper and the discussion builds on work that started at the 2016 takamatsu ict ministerial meeting and led, most recently, to the charlevoix common vision for the future of artificial intelligence.1
in addition, a second track in the ai for global good summit with 13 contributions focused on smart cities.
another question of scope concerns the ethical goal: are the questions and methods proposed here specific to the common good?
to help bridge this gap, additional “translation work” and resource sharing (including websites and moocs) needs to happen among technologists and other relevant experts (e.g.,
•	verity harding (uk), co-lead – deepmind ethics & society
the mydata movement combines related initiatives, such as self data, vendor relationship management, internet of me, and personal information management systems (pims) under a common cause to empower individuals with their personal data.
the declaration of mydata principles highlights human-centric control
every human should have a universal basic income and every human should be implied in politics as well as local and global peace building on top of being either a parent or not and on top of being self-learning or not and on top of being an entrepreneur (a contractor) or not and on top of being a subcontractor or not.
example: elliq, a robot companion for older people aims to promote activity and tackle loneliness by nudging them to take part in digital and physical activities.
google, amazon, facebook, and apple all say that every aspect of our lives will soon be transformed by artificial intelligence and machine learning, through innovations such as self-driving cars and facial recognition.
the rapid evolution and diffusion of ai requires appropriate actions to support research and innovation both at the government level and clearly at an international level.
what is most important: any human values at stake or potentially undermined by a system will be identified by following the p7000 process and mechanisms that are proposed to handle them.
important issues of transparency, accountability, algorithmic bias, and others are being directly addressed in the design and implementation of autonomous and intelligent systems (a/is).
previous papers have looked at ai use cases across sectors and business functions and ai’s potential impact on the global economy.56
the impact of the unintended consequences as the technology evolves can lead to reputation damage and, in the worst case, loss of customer trust and of shareholder value.
the decline in employment during the recession was larger for men than for women, to the point that in late 2009, women briefly made up more than half of the work force in the us.
from driverless cars to media platforms to the workplace,aiis going to have a significant impact on how we live our lives.
projects supported include ones to combat the spread of measles, help welfare case workers identify individuals who may need additional support in  nding work, and help victims of human traf cking, including by training algorithms to search for signals in police and investigative databases.
and miller (1998: 151) similarly described inclusion as the extent to which diverse individu- als “are allowed to participate and are enabled to contribute fully.” likewise, lirio, lee, williams, haugen, and kossek (2008: 443) referred to inclusion as “when individuals feel a sense of belonging, and inclusive behaviors such as eliciting and valuing contributions from all employees are part of the daily life in the organization.” furthermore, avery, mckay, wilson, and volpone (2008: 6) stated that inclusion is “the extent to which employees believe their organizations engage in efforts to involve all employees in the mission and operation of the organization with respect to their individual talents.” wasserman, gallegos, and ferdman (2008: 176) define a culture of inclusion as existing when “people of all social identity groups [have] the opportunity to be present, to have their voices heard and appreci- ated, and to engage in core activities on behalf of the collective.” finally, holvino, ferdman, and merrill-sands (2004: 249) define a multicultural, inclusive organization as “one in which the diversity of knowledge and perspectives that members of different groups bring to the organization has shaped its strategy, its work, its management and operating systems, and its core values and norms for success.”
a system to assess privacy impacts related to a/is needs to be developed, along with best practice recommendations, especially as automated decision systems spread into industries that are not traditionally data-rich.
at the same time, the a/is personnel should not only possess a necessary technology knowledge, but also receive adequate ethical training, and have access to other resources on human rights standards and obligations, along with guidance on how to make them a fundamental component of their work.
these principles applied to the digital and artificial intelligence field remain general and
ask almost anyone what ai is, what they think about ai or what areas of ai are concerning and they will express uncertainty, doubt and even fear.
with enough facilitation, a common agreement was reached on data governance, which resulted in increased understanding and confidence in the mutual benefits of responsible sharing of data, and in its stronger potential when implemented collectively.
the decline raises deeper questions alongside surveys showing large percentages of our population lack a sense of hope for the future.
 through an analysis of about 160 ai social impact use cases, we have identi ed and characterized ten domains where adding ai to the solution mix could have large-scale social impact.
the eu must adopt policies for the development, deployment and use of artificial intelligence (ai) in europe in such a way as to ensure it works for, rather than against, society and social well-being, the eesc said in an own-initiative opinion on the societal impact of ai, identifying 11 areas that need to be addressed.
there are many other problems that we could discuss — many of which are very urgent for us as a society right now.
and we must emphasize fundamental knowledges for training workers and use the best redistributive measures to temper the effects of rising inequalities.
 effective public and multi-stakeholder engagement strategies for accountability in ai
as clear and appealing as gdp, but more • inclusive of environmental and social aspects
7. establish clarity and/or agreement on the roles of various actors and stakeholders in ensuring accountability in ai.22
initially, digital technology, such as the desktop computer, automated human mental tasks.
* we should be intentional in what we are doing - we should choose to use ai to do good.
i want us to be brave, because that’s where the good ideas come from – through a sincere approach to collaboration.
moreover, as the norms embedded in a/is are continuously updated and refined (see section 1, issue 2), transparency allows for trust to be maintained (grodzinsky, miller, and wolf 2011), and, where necessary, allows the community to modify
to human operators in a transparent and understandable way
• ieee p7006tm, standard for personal data artificial intelligence (ai) agent
we have seen this as the internet has come of age and become an essential part of our work and private lives.
the four-factor model split the first factor in study 2 into two constructs (i.e., one factor made up of items indicating employee involvement, learning and growth outcomes, and fair treatment, and one factor made up of items indicating the representation of diverse groups and top management’s support for diversity), which were similar to factors 2 and 3 in study 2. the five-factor models were based on a combina- tion of the factors revealed in study 2 as well as the diversity management paradigms proposed by thomas and ely (1996).
the people who are building ai systems are, of course, required to comply with the broad range of laws around the world that already govern fairness, privacy, injuries resulting from unreasonable behaviors and the like.
a chief values officer (cvo), a role first suggested by kay firth-butterfield, vice-chair, the ieee global initiative and project head of
in the dssg projects and programs we’ve observed, faculty, staff, and students at universities are often are lending their expertise to help other organizations make use of data and data science methods in their efforts to address a variety of social issues.
a recent survey commissioned by microsoft found that in all 16 countries surveyed, the impact of ai on employment was identi ed
one of the greatest individual challenges posed by new information technologies is privacy.
un guiding principles on human rights (also known as the ruggie principles).
the impact ranges from debates around the dinner table about how distracting our smartphones have become to public deliberations about cybersecurity, privacy, and even the role social media plays in terrorism.
4. following an accident, judges, juries, lawyers, and expert witnesses involved in the trial process require transparency to inform evidence and decision-making.
already, the european economic and social committee has called for a code of ethics to cover the development, application and use of ai, to make sure “ai systems remain compatible with the principles of human dignity, integrity, freedom and cultural and gender diversity, as well as with fundamental human rights.” in canada, the montreal declaration on responsible ai, an initiative of the université de montréal, is trying to stimulate discussion on ethical guidelines, noting that “ai should ultimately promote the wellbeing of all sentient creatures.”
this disconnect could prevent both businesses and consumers from understanding ai’s benefits and potential applications, thereby limiting adoption in the long run.33
so now we can start to look at the meat of our question: what do real-world hard questions look like, ones where ai working or failing could make major differences in people’s lives?
• jordan, s. r. “the innovation imperative.” public management review 16, no.
and we haven’t figured out how to fix them because we haven’t been making optimal use of data (brown & duguid, 2017; castells, 1996).
as with any transformative technology, artificial intelligence may raise new ethical and legal questions, related to liability or potentially biased decision-making.
ida russakoff hoos, a renowned sociologist and a critic of systems analysis, noted in her 1960 hbr article (aptly titled “when the computer takes over the office”) that edp’s sudden presence in the workplace provoked polar reactions that were “often wishful and sometimes biased.” on one hand, “the machine is seen as the master of men unless firm government control or a workers’ revolt intervenes” (it was the ’50s, after all); on the other, those who believed “that the innovations are simply a phase of technological progress which begin with the invention of the wheel.”
• kim, m. “the good and the bad of escaping to virtual reality.” the atlantic, february 18, 2015.
organizational members must ensure that the technologies they create enhance meaningful human control over increasingly sophisticated systems and do not undermine
a city employee told the audience that when governments collaborate with data scientists at the university, “more than the skills that data scientists bring to the table, the city also gets management of risk.”
ai is increasingly being used to assist, augment or even replace human decision making, but initial research suggests that biases in the data or biases in the machine learning models can then cause these systems to discriminate according to race, gender or socioeconomic status.
48 see miles brundage et al., the malicious use of arti cial intelligence: forecasting, prevention, and mitigation, future of humanity institute, february 2018.
public discussions on this work as well as on the activities related to the eu ai ethics guidelines take place via the european ai alliance, a broad multi-stakeholder forum acting as a bridge between the ai hleg and society at large.
humans are hybrids, half animal, half rational spirit, our sordid materiality, our silly mortality, our mechanical bodies ever weighting us down and holding us back from our real potential as brains in vats or consciousnesses encoded to live forever in the flitting electrons of the digital universe.
designing ai to be trustworthy requires creating solutions that re ect ethical principles that are deeply rooted in important and timeless values.
the u.s. “automated vehicle” case study analyzed in the
the topmost principle would be that every contract run on the system must protect the profile owner's data for the owner.
net job growth during that period.34 a recent study by the mckinsey global institute concluded that “the independent workforce is larger than previously recognized” with up to 162 million people in europe and the united states — 20
as is respect for human rights set out, inter alia, in the universal declaration of human rights, the international covenant for civil and political rights, the convention on the rights of the child, convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and the geneva conventions.
women hold a lot of these jobs and are especially at risk – the world economic forum says that globally, women will face about twice the rate of job loss as men in what it calls the fourth industrial revolution.
while in ai research the issues are the same as in any other scientific area, namely excellence in research and higher education, on the contrary domain expert needs to pay special attention.
2. teams working on developing agi systems should be prepared to put significantly more effort into ai safety research as capabilities grow.
public and social sector
powerful entities should adopt socially responsible behaviors at all time, especially when in presence of the public.
in a short time, the canadian government has taken important steps toward better ai governance.
this is because of the amount of communication across our network, our ability to quickly reach people worldwide in an emergency, and the vast scale of people's intrinsic goodness aggregated across our community.
the reason this valve is so simple is that it only needs to consider one input, and make one decision.
in its most pessimistic, dehumanized form, the fourth industrial revolution may indeed have the potential to “robotize” humanity and thus to deprive us of our heart and soul.
principles for data ethics
it is also essential that “systems” are de ned in terms that are broader than just their software  —  aias should address human and social factors, the histories of bias and discrimination in the context of use, and any input and training data.32 bias in automated decision systems can arise as much from human choices on how to design or train
2. increase public agencies’ internal expertise and capacity to evaluate the systems they build or procure, so they can anticipate issues that might raise concerns, such as disparate impacts or due process violations;
common metrics of success include profit, gross domestic product (gdp), consumption levels, occupational safety, and economic growth.
common metrics of success include profit, occupational safety, and fiscal health.
if and to the extent we can preserve or enhance confidence in the administration of justice through the use of ai, policy-makers should be prepared to do so.
the moral machine project was atypical in many respects.
1) research goal: the goal of ai research should be to create not undirected intelligence, but beneficial intelligence.
underlying these four preceding values are two foundational principles that are essential for ensuring the effectiveness of the rest: transparency and accountability.
more than a third of those in the study fit its definition of “technophobe” and are more fearful of automation that could lead to job displacement than they are of potentially threatening or dangerous circumstances such as romantic rejection, public speaking and police brutality, according to the study.
access to satellite data and rigorous testing are essential for ai use for disasters
given the industry's desire to maintain social capital and create technologies that will benefit society, adherence to these standards should be developed in tandem with stakeholders to ensure the standards developed are rigorous, relevant and in the best interest of all.
of 20th century authoritarian regimes, who all pro- fessed to act in the interest of some common good, an “attempt to make heaven on earth” that “invari- ably produces hell.” [9]
the social contract system and its security mechanisms could take advantage of numerous supporting technologies, such as: blockchain, virtual currency, ai, distributed storage, distributed processing and homomorphic encryption.
in conclusion, it is widely agreed that de facto metrics regarding safety and fiscal health do not encompass the full spectrum of well-being for individuals or society.
recognizing a/is as independent “legal persons” would, for example, limit or eliminate
canadian researchers are pioneers in a number of fields that comprise artificial intelligence (ai), and that’s spurred some momentum in attracting foreign investment and government support.
as a result, activities that do not use ai will become proportionally more attractive.
ai is impressive, turning that potential into reality on the scale it deserves will require focus, collaboration, goodwill, funding, and a determination among many stakeholders to work
human rights and human well-being should not be held as trade-offs, with one to be prioritized over the other.
another approach to avoid a closed world assumption is to utilize self-learning algorithms, such as case- based reasoning approaches.
g7 multistakeholder conference on artificial intelligence
other researchers, including from the master project, have inves gated how to model and detect such trajectories.
practical guidance on the ethical development and use of ai, and all relevant stakeholders will be invited to voluntarily sign up thereto.
10. the general public should be informed when articles/press releases related to political figures or issues are posted by an a/is, such as a bot.
today, advances in the automation of knowledge and software development have enabled machines to replace human mental tasks.
of human beings in terms of partial autonomy, ability to perform specific intellectual tasks, and may even have a human physical appearance.
our analysis suggests that this drop would have been larger without the decline in labour force participation.
we saw a similar effort after the shooting at the pulse nightclub in orlando when people across the country organized blood donations to help victims they had never met.
this is a time when many of us around the world are reflecting on how we can have the most positive impact.
according to the media relations team at innovation, science and economic development canada, ai governance also falls under the “existing marketplace framework,” in addition to the federal personal information protection and electronic documents act (pipeda).
indeed, finding solutions that apply ai to specific societal goals could be accelerated if technology players dedicated some of their resources and encouraged their ai experts to take on projects that benefit the common good.
that happens in a reality in which traditional media is actually being disrupted by digital media and, of course, there are plenty of online vehicles like aol’s techcrunch— by the way, its main event is called disrupt — and personal blogs, sites, youtube channels, twitter profiles, and so on, dedicated to technology and technology disruption.
“the malicious use of artificial intelligence: forecasting, prevention, and mitigation.” online: https://maliciousaireport.com.
their procedure was quite reasonable: first, they analyzed the word2vec model to find pairs of words which were sharply split along the he/she axis.
they obstinately refuse to learn “the world as we wish it were,” or “the world as we like to claim it is,” unless we explicitly explain to them what that is — even if we like to pretend that we’re doing no such thing.
for example, we can considering mobile phone calls, gps enabled tracking applica ons, (geo- tagged) social media but also land, sea, and air surveillance systems with smart
[16] b. mols, ai for the common good.
broadly speaking, accountability is the foundation of trust in society.
as society moves towards complete connectivity, humans will require tools and mechanisms to enable agency and control over how their personal data is collected and used.
they are bias and fairness, privacy, safe use and security, and “explainability”—being able to identify the feature or data set that leads to a particular decision or prediction.
once digitalization is underway, ai systems can improve operational performances by contributing to information management, activity planning and actor coordination.
artificial intelligence | european economic and social committee
thus, it can be said that a society in which ai frees people from all unpleasant work, allowing them to take care of each other while fully developing their personal potential, would be a utopian society.
to the best of my knowledge, no generally agreed-upon ontology of social good objec- tives exists; i have therefore performed a rough clas- sification by the sdg goals that were chosen as the guiding principle of the ai for good global summit, and will report only the most frequent ones.
work would give way to higher forms of human activity, as the german philosopher josef pieper envisioned.
as a result, government policy and decision makers, and program support staff are confined to only the information that is available to them and therefore do not necessarily have access to the best available information.
the principles and recommendations to which the public is invited to contribute make up a series of ethical guidelines for the development of ai.
organizations must adjust fast enough to accommodate customer demand while abiding by legal and regulatory agencies, an effort that will require frequent strategic planning and top-down communication.
“a systematic methodology for privacy impact assessments: a design science approach.” european journal of information systems 23, (2014): 126–150.
as with computer vision–based methods, in some cases a human may be able to perform the task with greater accuracy than a trained machine learning model.
for example, vr applications have been introduced to attractions’ sites and are used to provide an interactive experience for tourists who can better acquaint themselves with new environments
organizations with large data sets include telecommunications and satellite companies, social media platforms,  nancial institutions (for details such as credit history), hospitals, doctors and other health providers (medical information), and governments (including private individuals’ tax information).
to do so, governments and regulatory agencies will need to collaborate closely with business and civil society.
if one of these needs is activated as a result of contextual circumstances associated with a particular social identity, that social identity may become more salient in that situation.
as they stand, i believe the principles will make it difficult to provide true guidance.
today ai law feels a lot like privacy law did in 1998. some existing laws already apply to ai, especially
7) we should support the development of commons algorithms — and of open data needed to train them — and expand their use, as a socially equitable objective.
antecedents, such as climate, leadership, and human resources practices, contribute to the group processes that build the work environment for the individual’s perceptions of inclu- sion (bilimoria et al., 2008).
a signi cant shift away from traditional employment without corresponding policy changes could further erode work- based social safety net programs.
• processing behavioral trends by members of the target community and comparing them to trends predicted by the baseline norm system;
big corporations adapted and are also surfing the technology disruption wave, either through a la skunk works operations and innovation labs and corporate venture, which has been experiencing exponential growth, expanding more than 50 times since 2012. not only digital, internet or computer companies are active in that space: all major automotive, consumer goods, telecommunications, pharmaceutics and industrial solutions companies (ge is one of the best examples) have relevant corporate venture operations.
the availability of vr and ar could lead to permanent disengagement from society that can have far-reaching implications on fertility rates, the economy, and alter existing social fabrics.
its ful llment centers and is creating convenience stores with no cashiers; in australia a company has developed a robot that can lay 1,000 bricks per hour (a task that would take human laborers a day or longer to complete); in call centers, they are using chatbots to answer customer support questions; and even in journalism, tasks such as writing summaries of sporting events are being automated.27
“i’m sure most people when they post that 10 year challenge, they’re like ’oh, i’m posting this so my friends can get a laugh at how big my hair was 10 years ago and they’re not thinking beyond that,” she told ctvnews.ca on friday.
likewise, trust is an important underlying mechanism of social exchange (konovsky & pugh, 1994; shore et al., 2006), facilitating self-sacrifice and commitment in relation to the work group and organization.
while many of these programs are relatively new, it is clear that we need to use data to build a more dynamic skills-based labor marketplace that guides education and workforce systems and prepares workers for available jobs.
if we bet that ai will not mechanically lead to the disappearance of work, it is because such a scenario is based more on fiction than on science and aims to feed more anxiety and fantasies than to engage in real reflection and constructive dialogue on the subject.
 cross-national research in explainable ai could be promoted to create more trustworthy ai and to help increase public acceptance and trust in ai.
with that foundation, our next focus will be developing the social infrastructure for community -- for supporting us, for keeping us safe, for informing us, for civic engagement, and for inclusion of all.
what is the common good?
with a community of almost two billion people, it is less feasible to have a single set of standards to govern the entire community so we need to evolve towards a system of more local governance.
as we've made our great leaps from tribes to cities to nations, we have always had to build social infrastructure like communities, media and governments for us to thrive and reach the next level.
microsoft and linkedin are taking additional steps to understand which skills are in high demand, to invest in skills development to address the changing nature of work and of jobs, and to help people  nd jobs to match their skills.
we also recommend that effective stem ethics curricula be informed by scientists, artists, philosophers, psychologists, legal scholars, engineers, and other subject matter experts from a variety of cultural backgrounds to ensure that students acquire sensitivity to a diversity of robust perspectives on human flourishing.
this could be the number of lives affected in a use case and how often per year a model would be run on each individual.
within the framework of the eu initiative on ai, the european commission is working with the member states on drawing up and agreeing a coordinated plan on ai to maximise the impact of eu and national investments by the end of 2018. as the president of the european commission jean-claude juncker indicated in his letter of intent to the president of the european parliament antonio tajani and to austrian chancellor sebastian kurz, the coordinated plan on the development of artificial intelligence in europe is one of the proposals that the eu will need to adopt swiftly.
• example use case from gsma: when call data records (cdrs) are used to help in the response to the ebola outbreak, mobile operators wish to ensure mobile users’ privacy is respected and protected and associated risks are addressed.
however, contrary to widespread belief, artificial intelligence is still at risk of being a missed opportunity for canada.
a/is can significantly improve our societies: the use of a/is in computer vision and human-computer interactions will have far-reaching implications.
therefore, social identities contribute to less individuation as people incorporate group aspects into their self-concepts (tajfel & turner, 1986).
however imperfect, the proxy of potential usage frequency of ai allows for comparisons between use cases individually or at an aggregate level across all domains, in terms of comparative magnitude of ai usefulness and impact.
to do so, we need to further identify and refine social processes and management strategies that facilitate values-based design in the engineering and manufacturing process.
regarding these, three types of ethics are relevant.
as an important milestone in this direction, on 25 april 2018, the european commission published a communication on artificial intelligence together with a set of initiatives to complete the common european data space.
mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 27
negar rostamzadeh, a research scientist at element, says ai has its own version of a problem well documented in tech companies whereby women are more likely than men to leave the field, and less likely to be gain promotions.
consumers may become increasingly wary of systems that use their data or influence their behavior via targeted algorithms, and the general demand for clarity and ethical standards may increase.
such an approach, based on layers that include principles, values and rights, and industrial and sectoral governance, will create a trustworthy ecosystem of responsibilities and accountable agents fostering market confidence and uptake of ai.
for each relevant application domain, a task force should evaluate the potential of ai and define the skills needed by the domain experts to manage, govern or supervise its deployment.
an e-mail survey was sent to the human resource officers of the center affiliates who were informed that the purpose of the study was to understand the meanings of diversity and inclusion in organizations.
we don’t think of these as hard because they’re so intuitive to us — but they’re intuitive because we have evolved specialized organs to do nothing but be really good at those.
it is reasonable to ask, though, whether in similar scenarios the university can maintain this stance, or if such arrangements in and of themselves pose challenges to academia’s perceived neutrality by entwining the fates and interests of the university, government, and private companies.
the demand for data analytics arises from an organizational desire to understand and quantify the results of their business processes.
the report proposes three goals for developing future policy on ai and national security: preserving u.s. technological leadership, supporting peaceful and commercial use, and mitigating catastrophic risk.
we believe an integrated approach that combines various ai disciplines will lead to the development of more sophisticated tools that can help people perform more complex, multifaceted tasks.
use cases within each domain are further grouped into two to five issue types.6 the following is the list of the social impact domains we examined.
business and human rightsnet discriminationglobalaiartificial intelligencediscriminationequalitymachine learningrightsconrightscon toronto 2018toronto declarationtransparency
20) importance: advanced ai could represent a profound change in the history of life on earth, and should be planned for and managed with commensurate care and resources.
furthermore, the mobility of ar devices in particular exacerbates challenges to privacy in private spaces, such as the home, that have traditionally been subject to the strongest privacy protections.
as we consider principles, policies and laws to govern ai, we must also pay attention to ai’s impact on workers around the globe.
for ex- ample, there is probably no “overcoming” the fact that in any society, many people overuse or misuse legal or illegal drugs – but this does not alleviate so- cieties from the responsibility to “deal with” drug usage.
if you want an ai to make a decision, you then apply some rule to that — for example, “pick the one most likely to succeed,” or “pick the one least likely to cause a catastrophic failure.” that final rule, of weighing possible costs and benefits, is no less important to the system than the model itself.
the most significant bottlenecks we identified, and which we describe in detail in this chapter are data accessibility, a shortage of talent to develop ai solutions, and “last mile” implementation challenges.43
in particular, immanuel kant’s ethics located morality within the subject (see: categorical imperative) and separated morality from the outside world
there is no one-size-fits-all for a/is regulation, but it is important that such regulation is developed through an approach that is based on human rights2 and has human well-being
we assess the ai capabilities that are currently most applicable for such challenges and identify domains where their deployment would be most powerful.
guiding principles on business and human rights: implementing the united nations “protect, respect and remedy” framework.
data from our recent report on digital business suggests that employees have become increasingly frustrated by what they are capable of accomplishing with digital tools in their personal life compared with how they are forced to work with their own company through email and nonmobile computing.
in the last few months, we have already helped our community double the number of connections between people and our representatives by making it easier to connect with all our representatives in one click.
it was atypical in its objectives and ambitions: no research has previously attempted to measure moral preferences using a nine-dimensional experimental design in more than 200 countries.
mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good 19
this is especially true with populations that are recently online, or lacking a good understanding of data use and the ambiguities of data “ownership,” privacy, and how their digital access generates personal data by-products used by third parties.
consequently, ai cannot be allocated moral agency or responsibility in the senses that have been developed for human sociality.
so today, we’re going to talk about the realities of ai: what it can and can’t actually do, what it might be able to do in the future, and what some of the social, cultural, and ethical challenges it poses are.
this added complexity may be what makes data science projects “for social good” so fascina ng and worthwhile.
many professional organizations have codes of conduct intended to align individuals’ behaviors toward particular values.
therefore, technology awareness and understanding of social and ethical issues of a/is are new literacy skills society must embrace if a/is applications are to be accepted and trusted as an integral part of modern living.
the more the “shop” is open (in the sense of open data, open science, open source), the better for the citizens.
45 wexler, “life, liberty, and trade secrets”; ram, “innovating criminal justice”.
cars affordable to a great many families, but cars were still expensive and people needed to borrow money to pay for them.
as one economist found in a recent analysis of the workforce, between 1982 and 2002, employment grew signi cantly faster in occupations that used computers because automation enabled workers to focus on other parts of their jobs; this increased demand for human workers to handle higher-value tasks that had not been automated.19
still, his rationale for taxing capital is likely to apply to the economic impact of the development of ai, especially given that the automation of work may reinforce the current trends toward greater inequalities and a shift from income to capital.
intelligent robots will perform difficult and dangerous tasks that require human-like intelligence.
other members of our society, facilitated by artificial intelligence, may alter the human affective experience fundamentally, potentially leading to a
• bayern, s. “the implications of modern business-entity law for the regulation of autonomous systems.” stanford technology law review 19, no.
there are also fewer issues with absenteeism: people miss work less and have fewer health claims.
aspects of justice pertaining to fair treatment of diverse employees are particularly relevant to inclusion.
presumably, the a acks and pi- racy opera ons are security/safety con- cerns of the rescue vessels, and these concerns could arise from the public availability of the data as well as from
for the most part, it seems to behoove companies to keep as much of their “secret sauce” (algorithms, decision-making processes, strategic uses of data) under wraps, but social pressure may lead companies to open up (or at least feign doing so, as many companies to today).
mitigating the social problems of technology development should be a special focus of responsible companies using a/is.
• the ieee global initiative for ethical considerations in artificial intelligence
“those leading the change” must not lose sight of the “human element,” or the fact that “there are some things even the smartest machines will never do.”
• balkin, j. m., “free speech in the algorithmic society: big data, private governance, and new school speech regulation.” uc davis law review, (2018 forthcoming).
we all have a stake in getting ethical and social dimensions of ai
in particular, we must ensure that ai growth
10 christopher fonzone and kate heinzelman, “should the government regulate arti cial intelligence?
and is there a future where humans and computers can work more effectively together?
4) the development of ais must preempt the risks of user data misuse and protect the integrity and conﬁdentiality of personal data.
for instance, women in male-skewed departments (men composed 92% of department members) versus male-tilted academic departments (men composed 73% of department members) did not feel more visible or have lower job satisfaction (hewstone et al., 2006), and women in male-dominated groups have reported a high likelihood of staying in those work groups (chatman & o’reilly, 2004).
5. incorporate privacy design principles.
there is an urgent need to broaden traditional ethics in its contemporary form of “responsible innovation” (ri) beyond the scope of “western” ethical foundations,
the current economic conditions and fiscal situation require that all goa departments optimize administrative and operational efficiencies to fulfill the premier’s assurance of “transparent and accountable government while managing public finances in a prudent and effective manner.”
• wassom, b. augmented reality law, privacy, and ethics: law, society, and emerging
be beneficial by supplanting arduous jobs, how employment in aggregate for specific populations and job verticals will be affected by a/is needs to be addressed.
but digitalization and the so-called platform economy have devalorized land, and the ai revolution now threatens to render much labor obsolete.
in december of 2016, ieee published version 1 of a report titled “ethically aligned design: a vision for prioritizing human well-being with artificial intelligence and autonomous systems.”
 related potential risks to consider and mitigate: unsafe use of solution, inability to meet explainability level required.
providing effective healthcare at a reasonable cost to the approximately 7.5 billion people on the planet is one of society’s most pressing challenges.
failing to establish clear guidance related to accountability could undermine trust among both experts and the public, potentially limiting the benefits of ai.
a definition via domains and actors is also used by the data science for social good (sogood) work- shop series that has so far seen three consecutive edi- tions at ecml pkdd, a major conference on ma- chine learning, data mining, and data science: “how data science can and does contribute to social good in its widest sense, including areas such as: public safety and disaster relief, access to food, water, and utilities, efficiency and sustainability, government transparency, data journalism, economic develop- ment, education, social services, healthcare.
access to ais and digital services by individuals must not be made conditional on their abandoning control or ownership of their personal data.
fur- ther problems arise when affected communities and individuals are outside the boundaries of the society deemed relevant in the respective notion of the com- mon good.
for example, an ai-powered recruiting tool used by one tech company was abandoned recently after several years of trials because it appeared to show systematic bias against women, resulting from patterns in training data from years of hiring history.50 to counteract such bias, skilled and diverse data science teams need to take into account potential issues in the training data or otherwise sample intelligently from them.
 ensure ai ethics is a core aspect of computer science and engineering curricula, and that coding literacy is a core aspect of social science and humanities curricula.
however, foreign countries will be the ones to benefit from this technology, unless more canadian companies begin to implement it.ai principles - future of life institute
as direct human control over tools becomes, on one hand, further removed, but on
it’s often valuable to look for similar problems in our existing world, to help us understand how we might approach seemingly new ones.
independent from ai, the 99% of humans on the planet must take control of their local country governance and actively participate in the local and global peace building process.
a focus on dssg projects’ problem-solving is sug- gested by [17]: dssg consists of “attempts to solve complex social problems through the use of increas- ingly available, increasingly combinable, and increas- ingly computable digital data”.
for example, it may help customers of insurance companies to feel more assured that they are not getting a worse deal because of the hidden operation of an algorithm.
27 ali winston, “nypd attempts to block surveillance transparency law with misinformation,” the intercept, july 7, 2017, https://theintercept.com/2017/07/07/nypd-surveillance-post-act-lies-misinformation-transparency/; “private donors supply spy gear to cops,” propublica, oct. 13, 2014, https://www.propublica.org/article/private-donors- supply-spy-gear-to-cops.
in 2017, broad coalitions of ai researchers, ethicists, engineers, businesspeople, and social scientists came together to form and to endorse the asilomar ai principles (future of life institute 2017), which includes the relevant principles
the creation of personalized privacy a/is would provide a massive opportunity for innovation
note that accountability is enhanced with transparency, thus this principle is closely linked with principle 4 — transparency.
a consensus then needs to be reached about societal principles and values to govern ai development and use, followed by best practices to live up to them.
and once it has been trained, the values of the knobs are fixed, and the model can be put to use, connected to real actuators.
boosting financial support and encouraging uptake by public and private sectors
there is a clear consensus among private sector and academic stakeholders that effectively governing a/is and related technologies requires a level of technical expertise that governments currently do not possess.
facebook is counting on machine learning to help it fight fake news in places with very different demographics to its ai research lab, such as myanmar, where rumors on the company’s platform led to violence.
2) research funding: investments in ai should be accompanied by funding for research on ensuring its beneficial use, including thorny questions in computer science, economics, law, ethics, and social studies, such as:
but are data privacy and gdpr compli- ance all there is to an ethically re ected approach to holis c trajectory of interest primarily to project master will certainly contribute to the analysis?
it will help these businesses to sharpen their customer value proposition by focusing the entire system design process around the elicitation of value qualities a system can have.
4. technologieswhosepurposecontraveneswidelyacceptedprinciplesof international law and human rights.
the question arises as to whether or not classical ethics theories can be used to produce meta- level orientations to data collection and data
while enabling more effective delivery of services for citizens, this will also provide governments with  rsthand experience in developing best practices to address the ethical principles identi ed above.
popular japanese ai, robot and video-gaming culture
a/is algorithms and applications must be considered as products owned by companies, and therefore the companies must be responsible for the a/is products not being a threat to humanity.
yet, because ai systems are designed by human beings and the systems are trained using data that re ects the imperfect world in which we live, ai can operate unfairly without careful planning.
the development of ai should promote the autonomy of all human beings and control, in a responsible way, the autonomy of computer systems.
in the past, this kind of genetic analysis could take a month; now the ai capabilities of project premonition have shortened that to about 12 hours.
no one will be left untouched.i am aware of a few existing initiatives focused on more research, best practices and collaboration; however, it’s clear that there’s much more work to be done.
the field of data analytics puts a refined emphasis on going beyond the scope of reporting to actually generating insights to drive the decision making process.
that’s not to say diversity programs are universally great and nothing can go wrong with them; unless done carefully, they can fail.
they include ai4all, the ai for good foundation, datakind, and data science for social good.15 we expect that, with the right support from the broader ai for social good ecosystem, more organizations of all types will start to include ai as an option in their toolkit for solving social problems.
this standard is useful for real business use-case like these two real examples :
there are perception gaps regarding what constitutes potential and actual harm stemming from data use practices.
social value.
our analysis also has implications for cross-country patterns, which we examine using data on labour force participation and the unemployment rate by gender for a group of 21 advanced oecd countries, starting in 1970. first, countries with lower labour force participation gaps, on average, should also exhibit lower unemployment gaps.
• for more on responsible data use, see
while some sensitive personal information, such as social security numbers, should typically be subject to high levels of protection, rigid approaches should be avoided because the sensitivity of personal information often depends on the context in which it is provided and used.
5. national and international development cooperation agencies and ngos should draw attention to the potential role of a/is in human and sustainable development.
they also aimed to sow social divisions that would undermine americans’ faith in democracy, and – as recent reporting has established – they made similar efforts to wreak havoc in open societies around the world.
a right could provide a mechanism to increase the transparency and accountability of a/is, and should therefore be seriously considered.
it is our hope that by addressing these challenges today, we can create a more positive, ethical, and intentional reality, whatever the environment.
 develop consistent management process to connect all data domains through a comprehensive goa data inventory.
because human beings are generally lazy in doing the math and developing science, i believe ai entities should mostly be scientific beings, always, in parallel to other tasks, analyze, research and produce results.
less and less humans sticking to their cubicles should we see, human resources collaboration and creativity should be highly encouraged.
whether this involves making a life-or-death decision years ahead of time, rather than delaying it until the heat of the moment, or whether it involves taking a long, hard look at the way our society actually is, and being very explicit about which parts of that we want to keep and which parts we want to change, ai pushes us outside of our comfort zone of polite fictions and into a world where we have to discuss things very explicitly.
 several ai capabilities, primarily in the categories of computer vision and natural language processing, are especially applicable to a wide range of societal challenges.
while the maturity of analytics is varied across the government, the focus of data analysis has been focused on serving the business needs of single programs or more rarely a single sector to solve specific sets of problems.
we simply have to ask the right questions and activate our ethical prerogative to express our values in the systems we build.mobile learning will close the education gap in men, not women — quartz
for more seeai principles - future of life institute
for this reason, they can make attractive partners for government agencies that want to do powerful analytics or implement machine learning algorithms for automating decision- making, but are worried about not foreseeing all the possible ethical repercussions of that work.
[1] this note should have been after the first sentence, but i wanted to preserve the rhetorical force of the bare sentences.
the potential use of a/is to create sustainable economic growth for lmics (lower and middle income countries) is uniquely powerful.
another goal that could be linked to processes was to improve information access/diffusion and quality (five contributions): the proposed analysis methods for summarizing news and social media contents and identifying misinformation, can arguably help citi- zens make better-informed democratic choices.
as indicated in our review of the inclusion literature, there is a somewhat small body of existing work on outcomes resulting from inclusion.
five domains for which many ai capabilities are relevant have the biggest share of multimodal use cases.
after incorporating insights from prior discussions, publish a code of ethics among internal stakeholders and partners who will be participating in a 12-month pilot of the draft code; once the pilot starts, interview stakeholders and partners every three months
note: this list of bottlenecks was derived from interviews with social domain experts and ai researchers and tested against our use case library.
one principle than another, or to consider one principle more relevant than another.
clarifying the legal status of a/is in one or more jurisdictions is essential in removing the uncertainty associated with the obligations and expectations for organization and operation of these systems.
one recurring concern is the impact of ai on work, and whether it could create a gap even wider than the existing digital divide, not just between high- and low-income workers but also between countries.5 while proposed solutions to these potential gaps differ, there is broad agreement that a substantial change in the way we educate our children is needed to prepare them for the future of work, and that large-scale retraining will be required for midcareer workers as skill requirements shift.6
ai technologies have short-term and long-term implications for humanity, and positive or negative developments depend entirely on the structures surrounding design.
given the power differential between employees and employers, this is an area in need of clear best practices.
but this post is not about my personal experience.
for this first phase of the declaration, we have identified seven key values to keep in mind: well-being, autonomy, justice, privacy, knowledge, democracy and accountability.
3. perform a self-assessment of each system, evaluate potential issues of inaccuracy, bias, and harms to a ected communities, and establish ways to address these potential impacts, including proactive conversations or engagement with a ected community members; and
model proves significant utility on test set.
by failing to adopt artificial intelligence, canadian corporations are overlooking an important growth engine.
and diseases (and the incapacity of most growers to access the services of agricultural consultants), but the world’s small farmers can now use mobile services like germany’s plantix to upload pictures of affected crops, automatically diagnose problems and get recommendations on how to deal with a particular infestation.16 ai will help deal with the fact that climate change is damaging arable land and putting pressure on the global food supply17.
ai ethics categories: bias, transparency, organization
we believe these principles are the right foundation for our company and the future development of ai.
we will incorporate our privacy principles in the development and use of our ai technologies.
an early draft of this paper was placed online for public consultation.
14 mckinsey global institute notes from the ai frontier: applying ai for social good
in the context of autonomous and intelligent systems (a/is), artificial general intelligence (agi) is often used to refer to a/is that perform comparably to humans on intellectual tasks, and artificial superintelligence (asi or superintelligence) is commonly defined
“sap considers the ethical use of data a core value,” said luka mucic, chief financial officer and member of the executive board of sap se.
it may be useful to implement a “one-stop shop” for ai per application domain, where anyone could find (or gain access) to software, hardware, data, knowledge, example applications, rather than just simply purchase ai solutions.
p7003 provides developers of algorithms for autonomous or intelligent systems with protocols to avoid negative bias in their code.
to work in the interest of the common good, an ai researcher or practitioner should be aware of this fact and make conscious (and transparent) choices about whether to sustain frames or expose them.
dal exper ze is in machine learning, trajec- tory classi ca on, privacy, big data.
the value of data in a shared goa environment requires an alignment as data starts to flow in an integrated system and therefore required enterprise data management.
if a young woman is literate, manages to get a working smartphone, and her family is supportive, there’s still one more barrier to studying for that college degree online: paying not for her classes, but for her data.
should we develop ai technology which is able to sense a person's well-being?
in this sense, then, ais- based trajectories of rescuing ships may not count as personal data.
in the strictest sense, machine learning is part of the field of “predictive statistics:” it’s all about building systems which can take information about things which happened in the past, and make out of those some kind of model of the world around them which they can then use to predict what might happen under other circumstances.
as one commentator put it, “automated machines collate data — ai systems ‘understand’ it.
as noted above, present human societies are being redefined
in other words, consistent and decidable formal systems that rely on a closed world assumption can
a core number of human employees at every level of decision-making with clear communication pathways.
a series of poll results on differences in human moral decision-making and changes in priority order of values for autonomous systems.
2. for validation and certification of an a/is, transparency is important because it exposes the system’s processes and input data
artificial intelligence (ai), which for the purposes of this paper we use as shorthand to refer specifically to deep learning techniques, is increasingly moving out of the research lab and into the world of business.1 beyond its commercial uses, now increasingly widespread in mobile and other consumer applications, ai has noncommercial potential to do good.
although o’neill said it’s not necessarily dangerous for users to participate in the meme challenge, she also suggested it should remind people to think about their personal data and how it’s being shared.
when the goal of your marketing team is to optimize ad targeting, ai-powered predictive analytics might be a good starting point.
“e-discovery” software can search mountains of legal documents much more quickly than human clerks or paralegals can.
while we lived on separate continents and in quite different cultures, we shared a common workplace experience within microsoft, albeit with differing routines before we arrived at the of ce.
the illustra- tion will use an example from the domain of “ai for social good”, more specifically “data science for so- cial good”.
ai-based services are not exempt from the requirements that will take effect with gdpr, for example, or from hipaa regulations that protect the privacy of healthcare data in the united states, or existing regulations on automobile safety.
over time, cortana will be able to interact with other personal digital assistants to automatically handle tasks that take up time and follow familiar patterns.
a proxy for human rights or any existing law.
[52] point out, there are however risks for all, regardless of minority status, when the underlying epistemic assumption is that persons “have” crimi-
of action under state law or certain federal laws such as the video privacy protection act, which governs disclosures of identifiable video rental records, and the fair credit reporting act, which provides access and rights to consumer reports used for eligibility determinations.
the ability of a/is paired with ar to match disparate data sets will challenge a bystander’s ability to control her/his public image.
considering ar provides a high level of immersion, mixed reality will challenge established policy and social norms around privacy and data control.
1) ais development and use must not lead to the homogenization of society through the standardization of behaviours and opinions.
even with teams of people coming up with rules, and humans, not ai’s, enforcing them, cultural barriers are a huge problem.
to intellectual, give both life and sense,
where individuals and teams are working with sensitive data the culture must be compatible with data security.
designs to better contribute to the common good.
high potential use of ai, but problem is complex and development of appropriate solutions may take time.
), this tool may be useful for conducting intraorganizational comparisons on the relationships between various approaches to diversity management and unit performance.
“on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing directive 95/46/ec.” april 27, 2016.
a good one when it contributes to realization of the goal.
going hand-in-hand with expertise, academic researchers in dssg also make contributions in the form of free labor, for the hours of work that university students, faculty, and staff put into dssg projects often come at little or no cost to partner organizations who stand to benefit from the work.
i.e., that their internal reasoning processes can be understood by human operators.
algorithmic guardian platforms should be developed for individuals to curate and share their personal data.
the requirements specification provided by the p7003 standard will allow creators to communicate to users, and regulatory authorities, that up-to-date best practices were used in the design, testing and evaluation of the algorithm to attempt to avoid unintended, unjustified and inappropriate differential impact on users.
there is room to improve the efficiency of information transfer within the goa and through this, improve government’s interactions with citizens and increase trust in government through greater transparency and accountability.
for example, most of these techniques are based on building a second “explanatory” ml model which is less accurate, only useful for inputs which are small variations on some given input (your own), more comprehensible, but based on entirely different principles than the “main” ml model being described.
each use case highlights a type of meaningful problem that can be solved by an ai capability or some combination of ai capabilities.
for monks, labor was part and parcel of devotion, and if you weren't good at writing, you could do binding, or painting, or for heaven's sake practice.
states and private actors should further, in relation to machine learning and artificial intelligence more broadly, promote the positive right to the enjoyment of the benefits of scientific progress and its applications as an affirmation of economic, social and cultural rights.
(you do this all the time while driving a car) their real advantage is that they don’t get bored or distracted: an ml model can keep making decisions over different pieces of data, millions or billions of times in a row, and not get any worse (or better) at it.
the second sense of accountability focuses on determining which individuals or groups are accountable for the impact of algorithms or ai.13 in this sense, accountability is somewhat narrowly associated with determining who is most responsible for what effect within the sociotechnical system.
is different from, for example, utilitarianism, which operates via critical analysis toward providing the best possible situation to the largest number of people, especially as it pertains to the good life.
1) ais must help individuals improve their living conditions, their health, and their working conditions.
and other conditions, data acquisition may need to be customized to optimize performance in any new park.
when codes of conduct are directed toward ensuring positive benefits or outcomes for humanity, organizations should ensure
what if school-based conversations laid the groundwork for an age of agile government where communities built agreements to address shifting conditions?
the term is frequently applied to the project of developing systems endowed with the intellec- tual processes characteristic of humans, such as the ability to reason, discover meaning, generalize, or learn from past experience” [18].
our greatest opportunities are now global -- like spreading prosperity and freedom, promoting peace and understanding, lifting people out of poverty, and accelerating science.
an ethics that does not rely on a decision to refrain from transgressing, but instead to prudently pursue a sense of purpose informed by one’s identity, might provide a greater degree of insight into the behavior of the system.
for instance, the computer might draw up a list of words that are common in rejected email (free, offer, c1alis) and measure the relative probability of seeing them in rejected or accepted messages.
thanks to ai, big data, and automation, we’re on the edge of an education revolution.
of commercial firms are starting to focus on the technologies in their work for social good.
by the internet engineering task force (ietf) and human rights mitigates the issue surrounding the lack of empowerment to raise ethical concerns as they relate to human rights by suggesting that companies can implement measures that emphasize responsibility-by-design.
although it is difficult to quantify the number of jobs that can be created or lost by ai, we know that the deployment of ai will profoundly transform the content, organization and conditions of work.
by now, thanks to much excellent journalism and scholarship, most people are aware of the many potential shortcomings and excesses of big data and data science (e.g.
in addition, a/is can potentially acquire functionality in areas traditionally captured under the rubric of what we deem unique human and social ability.
in ad- dition, an entry in the communications of the acm’s news, titled “ai for the common good” [16], reports on the ai for good global summit, whose goal defi- nition is given below.
), and operators (e.g., what are the levels of understanding required by operators to have knowledge of the system state, operational context, and situational awareness?
6) every person must be able to exercise extensive control over their personal data, especially when it comes to its collection, use, and dissemination.
this committee has been working to discover the methodologies that could provide this future with an ethical skeleton and the assurance that the rights of the individual, including control over one’s increasingly multifaceted identity, will be reflected in the encoding of this evolving environment.
p7010 -wellbeing metrics standard for ethical artificial intelligence and autonomous systemsp7010 -wellbeing metrics standard for ethical artificial intelligence and autonomous systemsstandard summary:
note: our library of about 160 use cases with societal impact is evolving and this chart should not be read as a comprehensive gauge of the potential application of ai or analytics capabilities.
the review, which went on to inform the uk government’s “aqua book” on guidance for producing quality analysis in government, o ers one possible method for de ning automated decision system (“review of quality assurance of government analytical models:  nal report,” hm treasury, uk, march 2013, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/review-of-quality-assurance-of-government-models).
a/is, artificial consciousness, and augmented/mixed reality has the potential to create a parallel set of social norms.
giving people a voice is a principle our community has been committed to since we began.
if you received this press release in your e-mail and you wish to unsubscribe to our mailing list please contact press@sap.com and write unsubscribe in the subject line.ai at google: our principles
the  ow of data and how it is used, that promote fairness in the use of consumer information, or that govern decisions
the criminal and civil justice systems do not exist to provide jobs for judges or lawyers.
then, as we learn how to combine multiple iq functions with abilities that come naturally to people — like applying knowledge of one task to another, having a commonsense understanding of the world, interacting naturally, or knowing when someone
e-rater, the creators of the software that graded his essay, responded by saying that if students were smart enough to deceive the software they deserved good grades.
some studies have noted that between 2005 and 2015, the number of people in alternative work relationships — which include contractors and on-demand workers — increased from 10 percent to 16 percent accounting for nearly all
thus, the first question we need to ask is whether ai leads to substitutions or it is rather complementary to human work13.
the ethics of creating secret and proprietary a/is from people’s personally identifiable information (pii) need to be considered based on the potential impact to the human condition.
for the individual, the key will be how to take advantage of these changes, while protecting one’s family, business, career, investments and way of life.
computer vision, natural language processing, and structured deep learning have broad potential application across domains based on ai usage frequency, several ai capabilities within the categories of computer vision and natural language processing and the capability of structured deep learning had the most widespread and greatest potential for social good application.
ethics: includes robot ethics, digital media ethics, data ethics, ai ethics, etc.)
a significant driver of innovation is the growing demographic change with the rise of the millennials (adults between the age of 18 and 30), who view the world differently and are shaping the technological landscape.
finally, governments and international organizations should pay attention to the legal issues associated to the deployment of ai-based solutions as well as to the general issues of privacy.
figure 5: growth in job trends for data science (source: www.indeed.com, dec 2015)
the availability of reliable, timely and relevant information is a necessity for accurate data analytics.
fairness and security “red teams” could carry out solution tests, and in some cases third parties could be brought in to test solutions using an adversarial approach.
6. nudging systems must be transparent and accountable, implying that data logging
• to ensure consistent and appropriate policies and regulations across governments, policymakers should seek informed input from a range of expert stakeholders, including academic, industry, and government officials, to consider questions related to the governance and safe employment of a/is.
ais must be developed and used while respecting people’s autonomy, and with the goal of increasing people’s control over their lives and their surroundings.
of which are human even though they are run by humans.
33% of suppliers see difficulty finding the right use case to tackle with ai
this is re ected in recent labor statistics in the united states where, for the  rst time, job postings have surpassed hiring in the monthly u.s. bureau of labor statistics job openings and labor turnover survey (jolts) reporting.45
realizing the broad potential of ai technologies will require thoughtful investments and coordinated action on a national as well as global level.
the accompanying stoa scientific foresight study was conducted according to the approach presented in depth in the concept paper ‘towards scientific foresight in the european parliament’.a short video clip and a legal/ policy briefing translating the study outcomes into legal reflections and recommendations are also available.
here we report the findings of the moral machine experiment, focusing on four levels of analysis, and considering for each level of analysis how the moral machine results can trace our path to universal machine ethics.
ultimately, neither business nor government can address these challenges on its own.
the fact that the cross-societal variation we observed aligns with previously established cultural clusters, as well as the fact that macro-economic variables are predictive of moral machine responses, are good signals about the reliability of our data, as is our post-stratification analysis (extended data fig.
today, many workers prefer the  exibility of part-time work to full-time employment.38 for millennials,  exibility, work/life balance, and the social impact of their work can be more important than a high salary or a full-time career.
microsoft will continue to invest in research and work with governments and others in industry to develop effective and ef cient privacy protection technologies that can be deployed based on the sensitivity and proposed uses of the data.
theory of values, understood as motivational orientations toward abstract outcomes
strong leadership from business, coupled with complementary changes in public policy to foster the growth of a healthy and balanced ai ecosystem, is needed (see box 4).
they are in used by organizations like the oecd with their better life index (which also includes subjective indicators), and united nations with their millennium development goal indicators.
what is being supported with this initiative and with the nsf big data hubs are partnerships and collaborations across sectors, as opposed to particular projects, technologies, or people.
in sum, “the common good” is referred to as a goal for ai in current publications, but not de- fined.
• intelligent and autonomous technical systems should be subject to the applicable regimes of property law
they believe that the recent rapid advances in technology are destroying jobs more quickly than they are being created, contributing to the recent stagnation in income and the growth of inequality in the u.s. for evidence, they studied productivity and total employment in the u.s. from the end of wwii, and demonstrated how they closely correlated with one another; the increase in jobs corresponded to the increase in productivity, and thus, the entire economy grew.
examples of use cases with high potential usage frequency include using ai on satellite data to map and predict wild re progression to optimize  re ghter response.
● technology in our global economy manifests an impersonal drive to efficiency, optimization, measurement, control, & other machine values, often at the expense of humane values such as justice, compassion, nobility, freedom, and leadership
“the immediate stress and its impact on mental and physical health and well-being caused by the government … cutting off a secure income stream is very easy to grasp,” he said in an email.
analyzing all this data requires massive computing power, which is available thanks to the ef ciencies of cloud computing.
develop ethical guidelines for companies, even a code of ethics
“we’re doing ethics on a deadline.if you survey the top 100 ai safety researchers or ai researches in the world, you’ll see that they give a probability distribution of the likelihood of human level artificial intelligence with about a 50% probability at 2050.”
it will affect our identity and all the issues associated with it: our sense of privacy, our notions of ownership, our consumption patterns, the time we devote to work and leisure, and how we develop our careers, cultivate our skills, meet people, and nurture relationships.
that might not be easy, but the honesty it forces on us may be the most valuable gift our new technology can give us.
to get a first indication as to how ai in the inter- est of the common good deals with these aspects, i turned to four major venues for ai / ds for (so- cial) good.
while taking this advice to heart, one must also be careful not to place too much emphasis on the responsibility of algorithm designers to anticipate harms, which could distract from a broader approach for addressing accountability in ai.
social identity complexity “refers to an individual’s subjective representation of the inter- relationships among his or her multiple group identities” (roccas & brewer, 2002: 88) and can range from a simple unified identity to a complex and multifaceted identity.
 multinational coordination of standards would reduce obstacles to the responsible deployment of ai.
the scaling and use of a/is represent a genuine opportunity to provide individuals and communities — be they rural, semi-urban, or cities — with greater autonomy and choice.
the library is not comprehensive, but it nonetheless showcases a wide range of problems where ai can be applied for social good.
but the fact that broad regions of the world displayed relative agreement suggests that our journey to consensual machine ethics is not doomed from the start.
• to maximize intended impact, create necessary space for trial-and-error strategies, and to scale up solutions that work, implement robust, data-driven evidence- based approaches.
how can a/is be designed to guarantee legal accountability for harms caused by these systems?
in government, academia, business, civil society, and other interested stakeholders come together to help shape this future.
emotional exhaustion then mediated the relation between façades of conformity and turnover intentions, suggesting negative consequences for individuals who opt to assimilate to the extent that the unique aspects that they personally value are kept hidden or, in fact, that they act in a manner coun- ter to those personal values.
cifar’s ai & society programming is guided by an advisory council of respected researchers from a wide variety of disciplines that blend technical expertise with a deep commitment to promoting human well-being.
a/is presents an opportunity to potentially reduce these differentials that ultimately strain social fabric and economic systems.
overall, this creates a declaration that is too utopian to be pragmatic or useful (as currently formulated).
stated simply, transparent a/is are ones in which it is possible to discover how and why a system made a particular decision, or in the case of a robot, acted the way it did.
